=== Sayfa 1 ===
644454150252004835761028554305 Copy of this document has been generated on 10.03.2026 13:32. Controlled and legally valid originals of all documents can be accessed from the DDMS located at ddms.thy.com. All printed and electronic copies outside of the DDMS are uncontrolled copies. Cover Page: 1  PR.50.028 | Rev.30 Procedure For Usage Of Aircraft Maintenance Log  APPROVAL_TYPE   APPROVER   ROLE   DATE  OWNER   AKIN OMERCIKOGLU   MANAGER | TECHNICAL OPERATIONS   17.02.2026 15:40:23 RESPONSIBLE   FATIH RUSTU ALTUNOK   SVP | FLIGHT TRAINING   17.02.2026 17:13:19 RESPONSIBLE   BULENT UNALAN   SVP | FLIGHT OPERATIONS(CHIEF PILOT)   17.02.2026 18:30:19 APPROVER   MUSTAFA SANDIKCI   MANAGER | QUALITY ASSUR.(TECHNICAL)   18.02.2026 14:10:27 APPROVER   MUHAMMED IKBAL ABAY MANAGER | CORP.DOCUMENT.&AUTHORIZATI ON 18.02.2026 17:10:27 APPROVER   ENIS OZDEMIRLI   VICE PRESIDENT | MAINTENANCE PLAN.&OPER.   19.02.2026 08:30:21 APPROVER   ATILLA COSKUN   SVP | TECHNICAL   19.02.2026 09:10:23  REVISION DATE  17.02.2026  ENTRY INTO FORCE  19.02.2026  644454150252004815761028554305
=== Sayfa 2 ===
1. Purpose  To define the methods and principles of usage of Aircraft Maintenance Log for of the aircrafts which are operated under the Company’s SHY-6A and SHY-6B Air Operator Certificates in the scope of Continuing Airworthiness Management Responsibility.  2. Scope  This procedure covers Aircraft Maintenance Logs of the aircrafts which are operated under the Company’s SHY-6A and SHY-6B Air Operator Certificates in the scope of Continuing Airworthiness Management Responsibility.  3. Definitions  ACARS:   Aircraft Communication Addressing and Reporting System  AD:   Airworthiness Directive  AML:   Aircraft Maintenance Log (See Figure-1)  AML Usage Instructions:   Includes important notes for pilots, ground servicing personnel and technicians about delivering, and storing the AML pages. These instructions are printed on the back side of red copy of AML page.  AMM:   Aircraft Maintenance Manual  ATLF:   Aircraft Technical Log File. Following documents are placed in ATLF. AML, DIL, Within-Limit Structural Damage Record and Tracking File, Significant Occurrence Pilot Report Form Transit/EPDSC/Daily Check cards and revision sheets of these cards, Company contact address and phone numbers sheet. Some of above documents are not available on board, which are not used for commercial air transport. In case of depletion of documents in ATLF, new ones are placed and if necessary sent to related line station via e-mail by MCC.  Commander:   A member of the flight crew who is authorized to serve as pilot-in-command and is appointed by the Crew Planning Directorate who meets the necessary conditions for the relevant flight (meets the requirements of EASA regulations, DGCA Regulations and   EK.10.73.001 Operations Manual Part-A 4.2. Designation of Commander). This definition also covers student pilot in command designated for training aircraft.  Contracted Maintenance Organization:   Maintenance Organization which has SHT-145/EASA Part-145 Maintenance Organization approval certification.  CRS:   Certificate of Release to Service  Deferred Item (DI):   Defect that usually affects aircraft performance, which may cause the pilots to use alternate procedures during flight and have references in MEL/CDL documents.  Deferred Items List (DIL):   The page where deferred defects that have MEL/CDL references, Hold Items that flight crew need to be informed and hold Items that may affect airworthiness (such as damaged/missing placard, paint damages, missing fastener) recorded on (See Figure-2).  EPDSC:   ETOPS Pre-Departure Service Check  ETOPS Maintenance Control Group (EMCG):   This group consists of following personnel: Turkish Technic Inc. Line Maintenance Directorate/Line Maintenance Duty Managers, Duty Supervisors, Head Technicians Technical Directorate/MCC Duty Supervisors P R . 5 0 . 0 2 8 | R e v i s i o n 3 0 P r o c e d u r e F o r U s a g e O f A i r c r a f t M a i n t e n a n c e L o g QMS Document Template Number: FR.18.0001 | Revision 12 Document Template Reference Document Number: TL.18.006 Page: 1 | Total Page: 19  644454150252004815761028554305 644454150252004835761028554305 Copy of this document has been generated on 10.03.2026 13:32. Controlled and legally valid originals of all documents can be accessed from the DDMS located at ddms.thy.com. All printed and electronic copies outside of the DDMS are uncontrolled copies.
=== Sayfa 3 ===
Maintenance Control Center (MCC):   MCC is an Organizational group, which monitors and controls all operations on 7 days and 24 hours basis and consists of the following Organizational members: Technical Directorate/Technical Operations Management employee Turkish Technic Inc. Line Maintenance Directorate/Line Maintenance Associated Directorate employee  Non-Routine Work Item (NRWI):   Maintenance records that are created/edited for non-routine maintenance operations and closed after implementation.  On Call Stations:   When an aircraft defect occurs, these stations provide the required technical services on a call basis (on call) by Certifying Staff.  SRM:   Structural Repair Manual  STA:   Station’s three letter IATA code  Subcontracted Engineering Company:   Company which engineering services competent to SHY-CA/SHT-CAM/EASA PartM/EASA- Part CAMO regulations obtained with contract.  Task Authorized Technician:   Qualified technician working on the aircraft (QM)  Within-Limit Structural Damage Record and Tracking File:   This file consists of   FR.50.0016 Within-limit Structural Damage Record Form, Dent&Buckle Chart and Sticker. The file is explained in   PR.50.052 Procedure for Recording and Tracking within Limit Structural  Damage 6.2 Conditions Requiring Record to the Structural Allowable Damage Record and Tracking File.  Turkish   DGCA,   IATA,   ETOPS,   MEL,   LVO,   CDL,   Hold   Item,   Certifying   Staff,   Pre-flight   Inspection,   Electronic   Document Management System (EDMS)   and   Very High Frequency (VHF)   definitions are available in   LS.18.146 Compliance and Management  Systems Definitions And Abbreviations List.  4. Responsibility  When applying this procedure; Flight Operations Directorate is responsible for filling of related section of AML pages, Flight Training Directorate is responsible for providing training to pilots about filling out of AML pages, Technical Directorate is responsible for defining the methods and principles of usage of AML and application of this procedure.  5. References and Documents Referred  Reference Documents:  EK.10.50.001 Continuing Airworthiness Management Exposition  EK.10.50.002 Continuing Airworthiness Management Exposition EK.10.50.401 A330 ETOPS Maintenance Procedures Manual EK.10.50.402 A318/A319 VIP ETOPS Maintenance Procedures Manual EK.10.50.404 B737 ‐ 900ER/B737 MAX ETOPS Maintenance Procedures Manual EK.10.50.406 B777 ETOPS Maintenance Procedures Manual EK.10.50.409 B787 ETOPS Maintenance Procedures Manual EK.10.50.410 A350 ETOPS Maintenance Procedures Manual  EK.10.73.001 Operations Manual Part-A  PR.50.018 Check Flight Procedure  PR.50.030 Procedure for Usage of Cabin Maintenance Log  PR.50.051 Procedure for Managing of Aircraft Maintenance Log Pages  PR.50.052 Procedure for Recording and Tracking Within-Limit Structural Damage P R . 5 0 . 0 2 8 | R e v i s i o n 3 0 P r o c e d u r e F o r U s a g e O f A i r c r a f t M a i n t e n a n c e L o g QMS Document Template Number: FR.18.0001 | Revision 12 Document Template Reference Document Number: TL.18.006 Page: 2 | Total Page: 19  644454150252004815761028554305 644454150252004835761028554305 Copy of this document has been generated on 10.03.2026 13:32. Controlled and legally valid originals of all documents can be accessed from the DDMS located at ddms.thy.com. All printed and electronic copies outside of the DDMS are uncontrolled copies.
=== Sayfa 4 ===
Referred Documents:  LS.18.146 Compliance And Management Systems Definitions And Abbreviations List  LS.50.044 The List of Staff in Charge of MEL Rectification Interval Extension  6. Implementation  6.1. General Rules  This procedure has been prepared to meet requirements specified in   EK.10.50.001 Continuing Airworthiness Management Exposition Section 1.1a Use of Continuing Airworthiness Record System and if applicable, Aircraft Technical Log (ATL) System, 1.1b. MEL Applicationı and 1.8.3 Deferred Defect Policy sections and   EK.10.50.002 Continuing Airworthiness Management Exposition 1.1a. Use of Continuing Airworthiness Record System and if applicable, Aircraft Technical Log (ATL) System, 1.1b. MEL Application ve 1.8.3. Deferred Defect Policy sections. Contracted Maintenance Organizations are responsible for filling out of related section of AML page, performing corrective action for defect recorded on AML and Technical Directorate/Assistant Directorate Engineering /Power Systems Engineering Management tracking of recorded APU and engine data on AML. AML page set consists of three different colored (white, green and red) side bands which are located on the right side of the page. Each version has the same page number. Managing of AML pages is explained in   PR.50.051 Procedure for Managing of Aircraft Maintenance Log Pages 6. Implementation. The information about total flight hours/flight cycles/ landings of aircraft and engines, time control of life limited parts, next scheduled maintenance data is not recorded on AML and tracked on Maintenance Information System. Commander shall ensure that the parts on AML to be filled out by flight crew have been filled out properly and preflight inspections have been performed. MCC contact information, required for pilot, is available on ATLF. In a destination, if required, pilot contacts with MCC to communicate with Contracted Maintenance Organization. MCC performs coordination with Contracted Maintenance Organization. A defect detected by the pilot is written on AML and MCC is informed via ACARS/VHF. MCC contacts with related department for rectifying of the defect. During the first delivery of an aircraft, in order to perform pre-flight Inspection, defect section of first page of AML is filled out by writing “INFO: Pre-flight Inspection performed prior first flight” statement and Pre-flight section of the page is filled out. Second page is opened for intended flight. Filling out maintenance related parts accordingly, is the responsibility of Certifying Staff. Once an action done on AML page, it is mandatory to fill out all boxes related to the action. While filling out AML pages, writing and minor corrections made shall be checked to be visible on all required copies. But, due to AML green page can be taken from AML by technical personnel without waiting for the Pre-flight Inspection section being signed, if no new defect record will be done, commander can sign by filling out Pre-flight Inspection of current page and accept the aircraft without green page. Records should be made by pen with indelible blue ink, in a readable and clear manner in English with capital letters. Error corrections on AML shall be marked with strike through and be made readable and identifiable with initials of the person who corrected the error. Once a defect/incorrect entry erroneously written on AML is to be cancelled, person cancelling the defect/incorrect entry writes “CANCELLED” statement on defect/incorrect entry. The same person writes the reason of cancellation readable below the cancelled defect/incorrect entry and initials below. The word “CANCELLED” shall be written on torn and wrong filled pages as well as sub-copies and these copies are sent to related departments with the other normal copies to assure traceability. In case of use of the same serial number (non-consecutive) AML page and AML printing wrongly etc., if AML page is unused, AML page is destroyed. Related purchasing department is informed about AML printing wrongly. If the error has been detected after using the AML page, the related maintenance and archive departments are informed. Because the used AML pages are CRS documents, they are archived without change. With the AML page number being the same, the date, route information etc. on the AML page is singular, each AML page has an independent and distinguishable feature. This situtation does not affect airworthiness. When repetitive AML page P R . 5 0 . 0 2 8 | R e v i s i o n 3 0 P r o c e d u r e F o r U s a g e O f A i r c r a f t M a i n t e n a n c e L o g QMS Document Template Number: FR.18.0001 | Revision 12 Document Template Reference Document Number: TL.18.006 Page: 3 | Total Page: 19  644454150252004815761028554305 644454150252004835761028554305 Copy of this document has been generated on 10.03.2026 13:32. Controlled and legally valid originals of all documents can be accessed from the DDMS located at ddms.thy.com. All printed and electronic copies outside of the DDMS are uncontrolled copies.
=== Sayfa 5 ===
usage is encountered, nine is written instead of zero in the first digit of the page number when entering the defect code to the Maintenance Information System. At the end of the flight, if there is no defect written in the book, to observe there is no defect, NIL INBOUND shall be written on the first “DEFECT” section of page. Statement written by commander as “INFO” on “DEFECT” section of page, for informing other flight crew or technical personnel, is closed by commander or technician stating “INFO NOTED” on “CORRECTIVE ACTION TAKEN” section of page. In training flights with aircrafts performing commercial flights (Base Check), in order to record the flight information “FOR TRAINING PURPOSE .…… TIMES TOUCH AND GO PERFORMED” statement is written to “DEFECT” section of page for information purposes and it is closed by commander or technician stating “INFO NOTED” on “CORRECTIVE ACTION TAKEN” section of page. Defects detected during ground check are recorded on “Defect” section of AML page filled out for arriving flight, if the AML green copy is available on log. If the AML green copy has been taken from log, a new AML page is filled out. Flight Info sections on AML are not filled out if the AML page is used for above purpose. Before signing “Pre-flight Inspection” of last filled out AML page, commander ensures that corrective action has been performed for the defects already recorded on AML pages and all required maintenances has been performed. When more than one AML page has been filled out due to number of defects, it is a obligation to sign the “Pre-flight inspection” section of the last filled AML page when the aircraft is received by the commander. For systematic followup, it is highly recommended to sign the Pre-flight inspection section of the previous AML pages.  6.2. Filling Out of AML Pages  At least one AML page shall be used for each flight leg. In Figure-1, circled letters explain the meaning of these parts.  Figure-1: AML Page  Company’s name and logo are printed on the left upper side and aircraft registration and page number is printed on the right upper side of the AML. Page numbers consist of six digits. Different AML pages are available for each type of aircraft and below descriptions are valid for all types.  A. Sections Filled Out Only by Commander A.1. DATE:   Day/month/year according to GMT time of the flight.  A.2. FLIGHT NUMBER:   Flight number. P R . 5 0 . 0 2 8 | R e v i s i o n 3 0 P r o c e d u r e F o r U s a g e O f A i r c r a f t M a i n t e n a n c e L o g QMS Document Template Number: FR.18.0001 | Revision 12 Document Template Reference Document Number: TL.18.006 Page: 4 | Total Page: 19  644454150252004815761028554305 644454150252004835761028554305 Copy of this document has been generated on 10.03.2026 13:32. Controlled and legally valid originals of all documents can be accessed from the DDMS located at ddms.thy.com. All printed and electronic copies outside of the DDMS are uncontrolled copies.
=== Sayfa 6 ===
A.3.1 BLOCK TIME:   The total period of time, which elapses between the very moment when the aircraft initially begins to move on its own power or by means of an external power source and the very moment when it precisely and definitely stops at the end of flight. It is absolutely mandatory to fill out this value as it is used to operate the engine oil consumption tracking program.  A.3.2 FLIGHT TIME:   The total time since the take off the departure station till the touch down on the arrival station.  A.4. STA FROM:   Three-letter IATA code of departure station.  A.5. STA TO:   Three-letter IATA code of arrival station.  A.6. COMMANDER NAME AND SURNAME:   Name and surname of commander.  A.7. TYPE OF FLIGHT (For ETOPS Aircraft):   For ETOPS aircraft, it determines whether performed flight type is ETOPS or NON- ETOPS. Commander records the flight type to the related box in this section with an “X” mark according to the flight plan taken from Dispatch Office. Commander shall check whether aircraft is in ETOPS status or not from AML page of last release to service and DIL records. To release/accept an aircraft to an ETOPS flight, the aircraft maintenance status shall be ETOPS adequate as explained in section E.2.  A.8. ANTI ICING:   This section consists of two parts as “Anti-icing code” and “Holdover time”. This part is filled by commander by obtaining information from the authorized anti-icing supervisor/observer via headphone.  ANTI-ICING CODE:   The code is written in the following order:  TYPE:   Type of fluid used during application. (Type-1, Type-2, Type-3 or Type-4)  MIX. RATIO:   Fluid/water mixture ratio, recorded as percentage. As an example, 40-60 mixture rate means 40% anti- icing fluid and 60% water. Anti-icing fluid rate is always said and written first.  START TIME:   Local time when anti-icing is applied. Written as hour:minute.  DATE:   Local date of application, written as Day/month/year.  APPLICATION STEP:   According to application type “ONE” or “TWO” box is marked with “X”.  HOLDOVER TIME (MINUTES):   Anti-icing protection time of application fluid calculated by captain according to fluid type, mixture ratio and meteorological report.  BRAND NAME:   The brand of the anti-icing fluid used in the application is written.  C. Engine and APU Oil Servicing:   It is filled out by Certifying Staff.  ENGINE OIL and APU OIL (In Quarts):   Depending on type of aircraft, when oil replenishment is done to any one of the engines or APU the added quantity is written in quarts. During the check of oil replenishment, if the engine/APU oil levels are seen adequate and no oil replenishment is needed, “X” is marked to the related section to show that oil levels were adequate. At on-call stations if engine or APU oil replenishment is needed, commander records this as a defect onto the AML page’s “DEFECT” section. Necessary replenishment is requested with the coordination of related station’s authorities by calling a Certifying Staff. After required oil replenishment is done this case is recorded both into the “CORRECTIVE ACTION TAKEN” section as text and into the oil replenishment boxes as digits to close the defect.  CALCULATED OIL CONSUMPTION RATE (For ETOPS Aircraft):   In case of oil replenishment is done for engines or APU, calculated oil consumption rate shall be recorded on the related section. This value is calculated by Certifying Staff by dividing the oil replenished during maintenance (in quarts) to the total “Block Time” since last oil replenishment. The unit is quarts/hour. If the calculated value exceeds the alert value given on the AML page, MCC is immediately informed by Certifying Staff and action taken according to MCC instructions.  APU HOURS (For ETOPS Aircraft):   This section only exists for ETOPS operation authorized aircraft. Whenever oil replenishment is done, to calculate and track oil consumption rate, APU hour value is recorded to this section by Certifying Staff. P R . 5 0 . 0 2 8 | R e v i s i o n 3 0 P r o c e d u r e F o r U s a g e O f A i r c r a f t M a i n t e n a n c e L o g QMS Document Template Number: FR.18.0001 | Revision 12 Document Template Reference Document Number: TL.18.006 Page: 5 | Total Page: 19  644454150252004815761028554305 644454150252004835761028554305 Copy of this document has been generated on 10.03.2026 13:32. Controlled and legally valid originals of all documents can be accessed from the DDMS located at ddms.thy.com. All printed and electronic copies outside of the DDMS are uncontrolled copies.
=== Sayfa 7 ===
CSD/IDG Oil or Hydraulic Fluid Replenishment:   There is no section dedicated to this subject in AML. But, during controls if CSD/IDG oil or hydraulic level at hydraulic system is low, then this is recorded to AML page as a defect item by commander or Certifying Staff. After replenishment is done, the replenished oil/hydraulic quantity, if the added quantity is not known due to insufficient measurement capabilities, then text “OIL ADDED” is recorded to “CORRECTIVE ACTION TAKEN” section, any needed maintenance or control is recorded with reference to close the defect.  D. Aircraft Defects and Corrective Action Taken:   Aircraft defects and rectification process related to these defects are recorded to this section.  D.1. DEFECT:   The defects which are determined during flight or pre-flight check by commander or by Certifying Staff during on ground checks are recorded to these sections. For aircraft performing LVO operation, if a verification of defect rectification is required during flight due to a system or functional defect affecting LVO status, aircraft is dispatched as a non-CATII/CATIIIA/CATIIIB status aircraft from the main base or outstations by the Certifying Staff with clear expression and reference on AML defect section about which system or function shall be tested during flight by pilots. For   ETOPS   aircraft,   if   a   verification   check   is   necessary   during   flight,   ETOPS   authorized   Certifying   Staff   records   necessary test/check/control actions which have to be done by the pilot. Aircraft is released for ETOPS flight with the condition that recorded verification procedures have been completed in the specified time (before entering ETOPS operation zone) and a positive result is obtained. Detailed information about this subject is explained in related aircraft type ETOPS Maintenance Procedure Manual. In addition, the defects affecting LVO and ETOPS situation explained above, in case verification of defect rectification is possible by test/control done during flight for those defects that may occur only during flight, some special cases that aircraft dispatched with MEL Dispatch Relief condition or due to nature of defect, verification process is performed Test/control process that needs to be performed during flight is written as INFO on a new AML page by Certifying Staff. Flight crew starts the flight with this AML page, after performing test/control process, corrective action is written on “CORRECTIVE ACTION” of the AML and open another new AML page for recording information of executed flight. Note: Process explained above should not be confused with the Check Flight. Situations requiring Check flight and Check Flight conditions are explained in   PR.50.018 Check Flight Procedure 6.1.4 Sequence of Check Flight Operation. DIL records are examined by commander or technicians to determine whether there is a deferred defect required maintenance action or not before each flight. If such a defect exists, it is recorded to the last AML page’s “DEFECT” section. Required maintenance action is applied by Certifying Staff. In this case, “(M)”is written before rectification statement. Defects, MEL/CDL items, HOLD items and if they have any periodic follow-up requirements such as “due date/FC/FH” are tracked and controlled on daily basis by means of Maintenance Information System by Technical Directorate.  ITEM NO:   For each item, item number is written by commander or technician. If more than one AML page is used to records defects during same flight, item number continues as 1,2,3,4,5. If NIL INBOUND written on DEFECT section of page, there is no need to write down item number. Each defect, which is determined by flight crew or technician, is recorded to a separate part by giving a separate item number. Defects are written clearly, legible, with capital letters and in English. For detailed defects which don’t fit to a single part are continued on to the next part without giving a new item number.  DEFECT RECORDED BY:   If defect/finding detected by Commander, Commander checks PILOT box, signs SIGN section and write downs company ID number on ID NO section. If defect/finding detected by Certifying Staff, Certifying Staff checks TECH box, signs SIGN section and write downs company ID number on ID NO section. Task Authorized Technician can fill out this section as described above, in case defect/finding defected and deferred previously are transferred to AML. If the defect/finding detected first time, it is written down on AML only by Certifying Staff, it is not written down on AML by Task Authorized Technician.  D.2. CORRECTIVE ACTION TAKEN:  All the actions taken for defects/findings written on DEFECT section of AML are written on this section. The corrective or repetitive control action written in this section should be written clearly. If the damage is evaulated, all measurement values should be written and it should be written whether the damage is in the limit or not. For corrective actions that do not fit to a single part, actions are continued to be written in the corrective action section below. If actions taken for defects/findings written on this section by Certifying Staff, Certifying Staff releases the aircraft to service by filling out CRS section. If actions taken for defects/findings written on this section by ‘Task’ Authorized Technician, ‘Task’ Authorized Technician stamps below of actions or writes down authorization number and sign, then Certifying Staff releases the aircraft to service by filling out CRS section. P R . 5 0 . 0 2 8 | R e v i s i o n 3 0 P r o c e d u r e F o r U s a g e O f A i r c r a f t M a i n t e n a n c e L o g QMS Document Template Number: FR.18.0001 | Revision 12 Document Template Reference Document Number: TL.18.006 Page: 6 | Total Page: 19  644454150252004815761028554305 644454150252004835761028554305 Copy of this document has been generated on 10.03.2026 13:32. Controlled and legally valid originals of all documents can be accessed from the DDMS located at ddms.thy.com. All printed and electronic copies outside of the DDMS are uncontrolled copies.
=== Sayfa 8 ===
When landing due to a diversion at a Line Station with no Certifying Staff while rectification is needed, rectification is done by Line Maintenance Directorate personnel or other Maintenance Organization’s technical personnel who is approved by related department of Turkish Technic Inc. for “One-Off Authorization”.  MEL/CDL REF:   Related MEL or CDL reference of defect is written.  CAT:   Repair category or repair interval of defect in MEL document is written.  DOC. REF:   Reference of document used for action taken is written. Each deferment done is sent with enough detailed information to take necessary actions as well as required planning to related departments by e-mail by Certifying Staff.  For ETOPS Operations Aircraft:   Procedure for defects written to the defects section is explained in detail in ETOPS Maintenance Procedures Manual.  LVO Operations:   Once a defect downgrading LVO capability of aircraft from CAT II is not rectified and transferred to DIL page, “AIRCRAFT STATUS: NO CAT II CAPABILITY” statement is written on CORRECTIVE ACTION TAKEN section of AML. Once a defect downgrading LVO status of aircraft is not rectified and transferred to DIL page, “AIRCRAFT DOWNGRADED TO CAT … STATUS” statement is written on CORRECTIVE ACTION TAKEN section of AML. When a defect downgrading LVO status of aircraft is rectified, aircraft LVO status is upgraded. In this case “AIRCRAFT UPGRADED TO CAT …STATUS” statement is written on CORRECTIVE ACTION TAKEN section of AML. In case of upgrade or downgrade of aircraft LVO status, Certifying Staff who performed the action informs related operational and maintenance departments by e-mail.  NRWI:   If there is an item transferred from AML to NRWI, this section is marked with “X” to prevent duplicated records to Maintenance Information System. In this case, corrective action is recorded in Maintenance Information System by NRWI form instead of AML page. In case of more than one part replacement occurred for a defect rectification, because of there is no enough place on page for records all parts information, NRWI is issued for the defect and all parts information is recorded on NRWI form.  REV. NO:   Revision number of the document is written. (For MEL document, the revision number on head page of the document is written.).  STA:   The station’s three-letter IATA code where the defect is rectified or deferred.  DATE:   Day/month/year of the work done according to GMT time.  D.3. CORRECTIVE ACTION DETAILS: ATA-CHAPTER:   If a defect has AMM reference, six digits ATA chapter is written. If a defect is deferred with a MEL reference and no maintenance action is required, then two digits ATA chapter is written. If maintenance action required in MEL Reference, maintenance action ATA chapter is written. If a document other than AMM and MEL is used for defect rectification then minimum two digits ATA chapter is written and four or six digits may be written according to suitability.  MAN-HOURS:   Total man-hours of work done as hours.  P/N OR P/K:   Component code or part number of the component/consumable part written on the release to service document.  POSITION:   If applicable, installed part ‘s position on aircraft.  S/N OFF:   THY Technic Inc. code/manufacturer serial number seen on the removed part.  S/N ON:   Installed component/consumable part’s THY Technic Inc. code/manufacturer serial number seen on the release to service document/serviceable tag.  CRS (*):   Certificate of Release to Service (CRS) statements are explained below: “CRS: Certifies that the work specified, except as otherwise specified, was carried out in accordance with SHT-145/EASA Part-145 and in respect to that work the aircraft/aircraft component is considered ready for release to service.” In case, suspension or revocation of EASA Part-145 approval of a Maintenance Organization that has been granted SHT-145 approval in recognition of the organization’s EASA Part-145 approval, SHT-145 approval granted to the Maintenance Organization is no longer valid and Maintenance Organization shall not give service. All boxes in CRS section must be filled out. CRS section is only filled out by Certifying Staff. P R . 5 0 . 0 2 8 | R e v i s i o n 3 0 P r o c e d u r e F o r U s a g e O f A i r c r a f t M a i n t e n a n c e L o g QMS Document Template Number: FR.18.0001 | Revision 12 Document Template Reference Document Number: TL.18.006 Page: 7 | Total Page: 19  644454150252004815761028554305 644454150252004835761028554305 Copy of this document has been generated on 10.03.2026 13:32. Controlled and legally valid originals of all documents can be accessed from the DDMS located at ddms.thy.com. All printed and electronic copies outside of the DDMS are uncontrolled copies.
=== Sayfa 9 ===
NOTE:   Any   SHY   documentation   located   in   stocks   and   referenced   in   the   CRS   statement   is   to   be   deleted   by   Technical Directorate/Assistant Directorate Maintenance Planning and Operations/Technical Operations Directorate staff within 15 days of the procedure revision is published. The documentation is then annotated with 'SHT' and initialed with 'TB'. Following initialing, the pages are recorded and stored in EDMS, linked to the aircraft registration and page numbers, as part of the aircraft maintenance records.  APPROVAL REFERENCE:   It is filled out by writing Approval Certificate Reference Number of the maintenance Organization of Certifying Staff who approves the maintenance.  ID NO/STAMP:   Certifying Staff fills out this section by writing his/her company ID number or by stamping if stamp available. If stamp is used it shall be applied to on each AML white, green, red page copy separately. If corrective action is within the scope of critical “item” and there is no second Certifying Staff to perform independent control at the relevant station Certifying Staff closes the defect by writing down “RE-INSPECTION PERFORMED” statement under corrective action. If corrective action is within the scope of critical “item” Certifying Staff who performs independent inspection stamps or writes company ID number and signs right side of stamp of Certifying Staff who fills out CRS section.  D.4. CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE:   If the defects determined for a flight do not fit to one page and an additional page is required, due to another reason next page is required to be filled out, this box is marked with “X” by commander or technician, to indicate the defects continue on the next page. If the continued page is not consecutive, (for example, if page number 002534 is followed by 002551) the following page number is written here by commander or technician.  E. RELEASE TO SERVICE OF AIRCRAFT AFTER MAINTENANCE  is section is filled out after all rectifications are complete except ETOPS and LVO special flights.  E.1. CHECK TYPE:   Section where maintenance type applied to aircraft is recorded. (Daily, transit, R, L, A, B, C, D, S1, S2, Y1, Y2, CPCP etc.). Having been filled out of this section means CRS of last maintenance has been applied. The CRS of last applied maintenance must be carried in AML folder. Due to this reason, last applied Daily Check or EPDSC on AML must be considered as CRS of last maintenance and make sure this AML page remain in AML folder. So that, there is no need to be kept CRS document in AML folder separately. For example, no need to keep A check or C check CRS document in AML folder.  LETTER:   Depending on maintenance type, maintenance code and necessary information are entered by B1 or C Certifying Staff.  DAILY:   This section is filled out by Certifying Staff who performs Daily Check task card.  TRANSIT/EPDSC:   For wide body aircraft and narrow body aircraft that perform ETOPS flight, if conditions explained in Transit Check/EPDSC task card occur, Transit Check/EPDSC task card is performed and this section is filled out by Certifying Staff as explained below:  ARRIVAL:   Once ARRIVAL ITEMS on Transit Check/EPDSC task card is performed this section is filled out. Items completion time is written on AML. If ARRIVAL and DEPARTURE items are performed consecutively, DEPARTURE items completion time is written as (hour:minute) on ARRIVAL and DEPARTURE section.  DEPARTURE:   Once DEPARTURE ITEMS on Transit Check/EPDSC task card is performed this section is filled out. Items completion time is written as (hour:minute) on AML. Note: Due to application records of Daily/Transit/EPDSC Task cards are traced on AML page, when these cards are applied it is not necessary to stamp and/or to fill out these cards. Any finding detected during application of these task cards is written down on AML. Updated version of these cards is placed in ATLF for reference. In addition, it is not necessary to stamp ADs and Task cards which are applied repetitively among flights and written in these cards. These ADs and task cards are applied as writing on AML page defect section “Apply ….Task card/AD” and as writing on AML page action taken section “…..Task Card/AD applied”. After the DEPARTURE ITEMS of the Transit Check/EPDSC maintenance card are applied and the 'Departure' section on the AML page is signed, in case of a malfunction in the aircraft; if the ETOPS authorized certifying maintenance organization personnel determine that the failure does not affect the ETOPS capability and configuration, and is not related to the ETOPS 'significant' systems, there is no need to reapply the DEPARTURE ITEMS of the Transit Check/EPDSC maintenance card. DATE, STA, CRS (*), ID NO/STAMP, APPROVAL REFERENCE definitions are same as explained above. D.2 and D.3 sections.  TIME:   GMT time of maintenance.  C/S NAME, SURNAME AND SIGNATURE:   It is filled out with capital letters, as first name initial, surname and signature of the Certifying Staff. Signature is mandatory.  E.2. ETOPS STATUS (For ETOPS aircraft only):   In order to determine the ETOPS status of an aircraft the Certifying Staff at first checks “ETOPS STATUS” from the previous AML page. Taking this status into consideration, deferred defects and AML rectification P R . 5 0 . 0 2 8 | R e v i s i o n 3 0 P r o c e d u r e F o r U s a g e O f A i r c r a f t M a i n t e n a n c e L o g QMS Document Template Number: FR.18.0001 | Revision 12 Document Template Reference Document Number: TL.18.006 Page: 8 | Total Page: 19  644454150252004815761028554305 644454150252004835761028554305 Copy of this document has been generated on 10.03.2026 13:32. Controlled and legally valid originals of all documents can be accessed from the DDMS located at ddms.thy.com. All printed and electronic copies outside of the DDMS are uncontrolled copies.
=== Sayfa 10 ===
records from latest flight leg with AML records for last maintenance and open defects on DIL page affecting the ETOPS all are investigated. Thereby, the current status of the aircraft is determined and the related section is marked. For whatever reason if ETOPS status of the aircraft changes after maintenance or defect, EMCG shall be immediately informed by Certifying Staff. EMCG provides coordination among relevant departments when aircraft status changes. Detailed information about ETOPS subject is explained in related aircraft type’s ETOPS Maintenance Procedure Manual.  NON-ETOPS:   Aircraft’s   status   is   marked   as   NON-ETOPS   if   aircraft’s   ETOPS   status   is   invalidated   after   a   maintenance/defect rectification or if there is a record that it transferred to DIL page that invalidates ETOPS status or if an item/component is installed that is non-compliant with ETOPS configuration. DIL page reference numbers (item numbers) of ETOPS impeding open items are listed in DIL section.  LIMITED ETOPS:   In case of a defect previously recorded to DIL or transferred to DIL page at the end of maintenance or rectification which restricts aircraft’s ETOPS flight according to MEL is marked as “LIMITED ETOPS” for ETOPS status and all open items on DIL restricting DIL are written with their reference numbers.  DIVERSION TIME:   In case of aircraft ETOPS status is “LIMITED ETOPS”, “DIVERSION TIME” for the ETOPS flight to be performed is recorded to this section.  ETOPS:   After verification of ETOPS compliance status with AML and DIL page records, this section is marked.  F. PRE-FLIGHT INSPECTION:   It is the AML page section that is dedicated for recording “pre-flight inspection works” which is applied by commander prior to each flight. It is filled out and signed by commander. After the checks described in the   EK.10.73.001 Operations Manual Part-A section 8.1.11.5,   EK.10.50.001 Continuing Airworthiness Management Exposition 1.11 Pre ‐ flight Inspections and the  EK.10.50.002 Continuing Airworthiness Management Exposition 1.11 Pre ‐ flight Inspections sections have been performed by the flight crew, this section is filled out and signed by commander. With filling out Pre-flight Inspection section, Commander agrees with Certifying Staff about defects recorded on AML and deferred by Certifying Staff. Commander signs Pre-flight Inspection section after being satisfied that deferred defects do not adversely affect airworthiness.  DATE:   Date of maintenance as Day/month/year according to GMT time.  TIME:   GMT time of pre-flight inspection work done.  STA:   Three-letter IATA code of the station where pre-flight inspection work is done.  COMMANDER NAME, SURNAME AND SIGNATURE:   It is filled out with capital letters of first name initial, surname and signed by commander who does the pre-flight inspection work.  COMMANDER LICENSE NO:   Commander who approves the pre-flight inspection records his/her pilot license number to this section.  G. FUEL INFORMATION:   Fuel company name, fuel unit (kg), fuel amount prior to Refuel/Defuel, filled/drained fuel quantity, total fuel quantity just prior to departure, remaining fuel quantity at arrival is filled out.  H. APU IN-FLIGHT START PROGRAM:   This section is available on AML pages of aircraft type included in APU In-flight Start Program. This section is filled out by the commander during flight. Filled data is used by Technical Directorate/ Assistant Directorate Engineering /Maintenance Program and Reliability Management to evaluate and monitor APU In-Flight Cold-Soak Start Operation Capability.  I. LVO APPROACH:   When Low Visibility Operations (LVO) is performed, this related box is ticked by the commander. If multiple approaches are done because of previous unsuccessful approaches and/or autolands, number of unsuccessful attempts shall be logged and reasons shall be ticked according to   EK.10.73.001 Operations Manual Part-A 8.4.7. Criteria for a Successful Cat II, Cat III Approach and Automatic Landing. Any technical defects leading to an unsuccessful attempt shall be recorded as well.  6.3. Deferment of Defects and Closure of Deferred Defects  For a defect written to AML’s “DEFECT” section which can’t be rectified and this defect is not a barrier to release the aircraft to flight safely according to MEL or CDL, then this defect is recorded to FR.50.0019 AML-DIL Form and, FR.50.0018 AML-DIL ETOPS Form for ETOPS aircraft as a DI. Furthermore; when an ETOPS significant system or component failure has been occurred and despite defect is rectified, if a NON ETOPS part or component is used to rectify the defect, the defect is recorded to DIL as a DI. Also, other conditions which are affecting aircraft ETOPS status are recorded to DIL page as INFO. DIL is one copy and consists of two parts. Placing on board is provided by staff placing AML on board. Personnel performing daily check, checks that there is at least one spare page is available on board. During maintenance, when maintenance is completed, it is taken by technician and added into the maintenance package in order to be sent to the archive. In any other cases, it is not taken from AML. P R . 5 0 . 0 2 8 | R e v i s i o n 3 0 P r o c e d u r e F o r U s a g e O f A i r c r a f t M a i n t e n a n c e L o g QMS Document Template Number: FR.18.0001 | Revision 12 Document Template Reference Document Number: TL.18.006 Page: 9 | Total Page: 19  644454150252004815761028554305 644454150252004835761028554305 Copy of this document has been generated on 10.03.2026 13:32. Controlled and legally valid originals of all documents can be accessed from the DDMS located at ddms.thy.com. All printed and electronic copies outside of the DDMS are uncontrolled copies.
=== Sayfa 11 ===
During the maintenance, related staff transfers open DIs to NRWI form and records NRWI number on DIR block of DI. DIL pages are inserted into maintenance package and kept together. Original DIL pages are kept at archive for three years.  If defect or damage can’t be rectified before flight and it is “GO” or “GO IF” according to MEL or CD then defect is transferred to DIL as explained below; defect is deferred to be rectified later.  6.3.1. Deferment of Defects  A/B1/B2 category Certifying Staff defer the defect according to MEL/CDL and provides transfer of it to DIL page. At On-call Station: When defects, those do not need any “Maintenance Action” (M) according to MEL document, occur commander declares defects to MCC via phone call or ACARS message. Commander agrees with MCC on deferring the defect. After agreement, MCC produces “MEL Authorization Number” and record it on FR.50.0056 MEL Authorization Form. After that MCC delivers the “MEL Authorization Number” to commander to record on log page. Commander fills out “CORRECTIVE ACTION TAKEN” block of AML as explained in section 6.2 Filling Out of AML Pages subsection D.2   Corrective   Action   Taken   of   this   procedure   with   recording   “MEL   Authorization   Number”   and   writing   statement:   “MEL AUTHORIZATION APPLIED, DEFECT WAS DEFERRED AND TRANSFERRED TO DIL ITEM:….BY COMMANDER” by signing below of the statement. During transferring of defect to DIL page, commander fills out G.3, G.4, G.5, G.6, G.7, G.10, G.11 boxes of DIL page explained in section 6.4 Filling out of DIL Page of this procedure. Contracted Maintenance Company staff informs related departments via sending e-mail to   MELCDLREPORT@THY.COM about defect, Turkish Technic Line Maintenance Planning Supervisory performs required coordination for corrective action at suitable time/station. MEL Authorization Number: is formatted as “MEL Authorization Form” order number, date, initials of name and surname of Certifying Staff performing process and license number. For example: 007_21_11_2013_MY3065 When “maintenance action” is required for MEL or CDL defects, MCC is contacted and actions are taken by considering MCC’s directives. Once defect deferring process is applied by commander, as explained above, airworthiness of aircraft continues. There is no need to fill out CRS block of log page, in the case of no maintenance action is applied to aircraft. By signing of “Pre-flight Inspection” section of log page, commander ensures that aircraft is airworthy for intended flight. MEL Authorization Form is archived for six months by Turkish Technic Line Maintenance Directorate, and then discarded. In order to record MEL/CDL items that require a maintenance action to DIL page, accomplished maintenance action (M) is recorded briefly to both “Corrective Action Taken” section on AML and to the top of where DIL is recorded on DIL with (M) by certifying maintenance staff of Contracted Maintenance Organization. Likewise, during the registration of MEL items that bring operational restrictions to DIL, "(O)" is written at the beginning of the section where the "Deferred Item" is registered by the certifying personnel, in order to inform the pilot in command. The item number on DIL page is written to “CORRECTIVE ACTION TAKEN” section on AML as, “SEE DIL PAGE__ITEM NO__”. In order to follow up on deferred items like maintenance action requiring control/test before each flight or periodically, Turkish Technic Inc. Line Maintenance Directorate’s related personnel informs related Line Station’s technical department where the aircraft will depart to by e-mail or phone. Required maintenance action is performed by Certifying Staff at the station. The performed maintenance action is notified to   LINEMAINTENANCE@THY.COM and   MCC@THY.COM by e-mail. The items that require maintenance action before flight are determined by Certifying Staff by using the information on this page. The action taken for these items according to MEL/CDL requirements is recorded to AML page as follows: The deferred defect record is transferred to AML page as a defect. However, to specify that the record is already recorded to DIL page, DIL item number is written on “DEFECT” section. The maintenance action performed is recorded to the “CORRECTIVE ACTION TAKEN” section. Structural damages are processed according to   PR.50.052 Procedure for Recording and Tracking Within-Limit Structural Damage 6.2. Conditions Requiring Record to the Structural Allowable Damage Record and Tracking File section and they are not recorded on the DIL page as a general practice.  Only structural damage and repairs that require maintenance actions with an interval of 2 FC/1 day or less (high speed tape control, etc.) are recorded on the DIL page in addition to the SDRF. P R . 5 0 . 0 2 8 | R e v i s i o n 3 0 P r o c e d u r e F o r U s a g e O f A i r c r a f t M a i n t e n a n c e L o g QMS Document Template Number: FR.18.0001 | Revision 12 Document Template Reference Document Number: TL.18.006 Page: 10 | Total Page: 19  644454150252004815761028554305 644454150252004835761028554305 Copy of this document has been generated on 10.03.2026 13:32. Controlled and legally valid originals of all documents can be accessed from the DDMS located at ddms.thy.com. All printed and electronic copies outside of the DDMS are uncontrolled copies.
=== Sayfa 12 ===
6.3.2. Closure of Deferred Defects  After rectification of defect written on DIL page, the item is recorded as explained below. The transferred AML page number and item number are written inside “This item transferred to log page ___item no:__” of Deferred Item Rectification section. All the expressions written on the “DEFERRED ITEM” section of DIL page are transferred to related AML “DEFECT” section, also “TRANSFERRED FROM DIL PAGE ____ ITEM NO: ____” statement is written with capital letters. Work done for defect rectification is written to AML “CORRECTIVE ACTION TAKEN” section in details. All statements written to “CORRECTIVE ACTION TAKEN” section of AML are also written to “Deferred Item Rectification” section of DIL. Also, the necessary additional information written on right side column is transferred to DIR section.  6.3.3. Re-deferment of Deferred Defects  If defect shall not be rectified in the duration written in MEL, Turkish Technic Inc. Line Maintenance Directorate/Aircraft Maintenance Directorate/Cabin Interior Maintenance Directorate personnel requests with reasoning a one-time MEL rectification time interval extension   from   Technical   Directorate/Assistant   Directorate   Maintenance   Planning   and   Operations/Technical   Operations Management/MCC Duty Supervisory. “Rectification Interval Extension (RIE)” is only applicable aircraft under scope of commercial air transport. “Rectification Interval Extension (RIE)” is valid for MEL items in category B, C, D for Airbus and Boeing aircraft and can be extended as the duration specified in MEL. “Rectification Interval Extension (RIE)” request can be applied only if required part/component could not be obtained or activities   that   are   not   controlled   by   Company.   “Rectification   Interval   Extension   (RIE)”   applications   are   monitored   by   Technical Directorate/Assistant DirectorateMaintenance Planning and Operations/Technical Operations Management on monthly basis. FR.50.0036 Rectification Interval Extension Notification Form is prepared by Turkish Technic Inc. Line Maintenance Directorate’s staff. "Controlled by” and “Approved by” sections of the form are signed by Technical Directorate staff that are listed LS.50.044 List of Staff in  Charge of MEL Rectification Interval Extension and it is informed related departments through e-mail. Staff who controls and/or approves FR.50.0036 Rectification Interval Extension Notification Form must have received MEL training and familiarization training for a type of aircraft. If the staff who controls and/or approves the form is Certifying Staff, there is no need to take these trainings. Controlling of usage MEL rectification interval extension is provided by staff who controls and approves the form. The name and duty of staff who is responsible for controlling and approving the form are listed in   LS.50.044 List of Staff in Charge of MEL Rectification Interval Extension. After the every revision of   LS.50.044 List of Staff in Charge of MEL Rectification Interval Extension, the list is sent to DGCA ( uodops@shgm.gov.tr) via e-mail in a month for information purpose. “Rectification Interval Extension (RIE)” shall not be re-applied to the same aircraft, for the same reason and the same defect in 40 days after defect closure date. “Rectification Interval Extension (RIE)” shall not be applied before “Approved by” section of the form is signed. Approved Rectification Interval Extension Notification Forms are sent to Turkish DGCA within 10 calendar days by e-mail by MCC Duty Supervisory. Items which have been extended once with MEL Category are closed by writing “ONE TIME EXTENSION APPLIED” to “Deferred Item Rectification” section on DIL page. Closed items are transferred to AML and written as it is with new item number. “ONE TIME EXTENSION APPLIED” is written to “Action Taken” section closed on AML and recorded to DIL as a new item. When item is recorded the defect is explained and “ONE TIME EXTENSION APPLIED” is written on defect section of DIL. The date “Rectification Interval Extension” performed is written as a date of item. Before MEL extension expires, item is closed. In rectification interval extensions not defined above, a letter of approval is obtained from the manufacturer for extending the rectification interval of the defect again or under certain conditions, and an application is made to Turkish DGCA for the extension of the rectification interval with this letter. With the approval letter received from Turkish DGCA, the statement "MEL rectification interval extended until ...... by Turkish DGCA approval. Turkish DGCA approval is attached to AML." is written on the AML and DIL pages, and a copy of the Turkish DGCA approval letter is attached to the green page of the aircraft maintenance logbook. Rectification Interval Extension process is tracked by   FR.50.0142 Rectification Interval Extension (RIE) Record Form. In case FR.50.0036 Rectification Interval Extension Notification Form is filled out erroneously or after the form filled out and decided not to apply Rectification Interval Extension, “IPTAL” (cancel) is written on the form and recorded on FR.50.0142 Rectification Interval  Extension (RIE) Record Form. FR.50.0036 Rectification Interval Extension Notification Form is kept for three (3) years at Technical Directorate/ Assistant Directorate Maintenance Planning and Operations/Technical Operations Management/MCC Duty Supervisory Office, then discarded appropriately. P R . 5 0 . 0 2 8 | R e v i s i o n 3 0 P r o c e d u r e F o r U s a g e O f A i r c r a f t M a i n t e n a n c e L o g QMS Document Template Number: FR.18.0001 | Revision 12 Document Template Reference Document Number: TL.18.006 Page: 11 | Total Page: 19  644454150252004815761028554305 644454150252004835761028554305 Copy of this document has been generated on 10.03.2026 13:32. Controlled and legally valid originals of all documents can be accessed from the DDMS located at ddms.thy.com. All printed and electronic copies outside of the DDMS are uncontrolled copies.
=== Sayfa 13 ===
6.3.4. MEL Reference Change of Deferred Defect  After deferment of a defect in accordance with MEL, in case of dispatch conditions of aircraft are changed, or if a MEL revision requires a change to the MEL reference/category change is required following process is performed. Following process is only performed by Certifying Staff. Considering the discovering date of defect that is the date defect is firstly written on AML, personnel performing the process ensures that new MEL item repair interval is not overdue. Discovering date of defect cannot be modified. MEL item repair interval shall countdown as calendar day excluding the day defect discovered. Personnel performing the process ensures that the aircraft is fit for new dispatch conditions described in MEL item. Furthermore, he/she ensures that required placarding and maintenance action is performed if described in new MEL item. In case of MEL reference has been changed, personnel performing the process informs related Line Maintenance Planning and Operation departments by e-mail. A defect written on AML is deferred in accordance with MEL and recorded on DIL page. Once MEL reference change is required, open defect on DIL page is closed as writing “DEFECT WAS TRANSFERRED TO AML PAGE:…… FOR MEL REFERENCE/CATEGORY CHANGING”. The defect is transferred on AML page Defect section as writing “DEFECT WAS TRANSFERRED FROM DIL PAGE…..ITEM NO:…..FOR MEL REFERENCE/CATEGORY CHANGING”. With new MEL reference, the defect is closed on AML as writing “DEFECT MEL REFERENCE/CATEGORY WAS CHANGED FROM MEL:…..TO MEL:…..AND TRANSFERRED TO DIL ITEM NO:…..”. The defect is written on DIL page as a new item. “Due date” of the item open on DIL page is calculated based on day the defect is firstly written on AML. MEL reference change is not performed if the Rectification Interval Extension has been applied to the defect.  6.3.5. Deferring Items During Completion of Letter Checks  The defects which exist on DIL page before Letter Check Maintenance but could not be rectified until maintenance exit, are recorded to the new DIL page inserted to AML folder with a new item number. In the situation of new DIL recording during maintenance, “ITEM DEFERRED TO NEW DIL AT MAINTENANCE EXIT” statement is written to the DEFERRED ITEM box at DIL and sign and seal sections are filled by certifying staff writes the statement. During maintenance, open defects on DIL page are rectified by writing NRWI and closed on DIL page by writing item number on “DEFERRED ITEM RECTIFICATION” section. The MEL/CDL defects which detected during Letter Check Maintenance and could not be rectified until maintenance exit, are recorded on a new AML page, maintenance CRS date is considered as defect detected date, the defects transferred from AML to DIL page, aircraft releases to service after related section of CHECK TYPE at bottom of AML page are filled out.  6.3.6. Deferred Defects Which Affect LVO and ETOPS Status  Actions changing LVO and ETOPS aircraft ‘s ETOPS status (part replacements related to ETOPS, ETOPS MEL items and limitation subjects related to Technical Deviation), are transferred to DIL pages.  LVO STATUS:   Certifying Staff who defers defect or commander who completes Pre-flight Inspection section is responsible for carrying out necessary actions regarding LVO. Items that affect aircraft’s LVO status are ticked the appropriate boxes on DIL page LVO EFFECT section.  NON-CAT II:   This section shows that the aircraft is not suitable for CATII operation.  NON-CAT IIIA:   This section shows that the aircraft is not suitable for CATIIIA operation.  NON-CAT IIIB:   This section shows that the aircraft is not suitable for CATIIIB operation.  ETOPS EFFECT:   On DIL page of ETOPS aircraft, ETOPS EFFECT boxes showing aircraft ETOPS status are filled out by ETOPS Certifying Staff.  LIMITED ETOPS:   If this section is marked, aircraft is limitedly suitable for ETOPS operation.  NON-ETOPS:   If this section is marked aircraft is technically not suitable for ETOPS operation. P R . 5 0 . 0 2 8 | R e v i s i o n 3 0 P r o c e d u r e F o r U s a g e O f A i r c r a f t M a i n t e n a n c e L o g QMS Document Template Number: FR.18.0001 | Revision 12 Document Template Reference Document Number: TL.18.006 Page: 12 | Total Page: 19  644454150252004815761028554305 644454150252004835761028554305 Copy of this document has been generated on 10.03.2026 13:32. Controlled and legally valid originals of all documents can be accessed from the DDMS located at ddms.thy.com. All printed and electronic copies outside of the DDMS are uncontrolled copies.
=== Sayfa 14 ===
6.4. Filling out of DIL Page  Figure-2: DIL Page  G.1. A/C REGISTRATION:   Aircraft registration is written by Certifying Staff who places the page to aircraft.  G.2. PAGE NUMBER:   Page number is written by Certifying Staff who is responsible for placing the page into AML folder.  G.3. D/I NO:   Deferred Item sequence number is written.  G.4. STATION:   Three letter IATA station code is written.  G.5. DATE:   GMT date. Date is written as Day/month/year.  G.6. This item transferred from Log page ____ item no: ____:  Blanks above are filled out with deferred defect’s AML page and item number. MEL/CDL/HOLD Ref: ___ Category __: If the defect couldn’t be rectified before flight is “GO” or “GO IF” according to MEL or CDL, then MEL or CDL reference number is recorded, if it’s a MEL item then it’s recorded with its category.  G.7. DUE DATE, DUE IN FC, DUE IN FH:  The latest rectification date, total flight cycles (FH), and total flight hours (FH) during which the flight can be performed are specified based on the deferred defect’s category in the MEL or the reference in the manufacturer’s documentation. For deferred defects that must be rectified upon return to the main maintenance base, the “RETURN TO MAIN BASE” checkbox is selected, and the planned arrival date is entered in the “DUE DATE” field in the ___/__/20_ format.  G.8. (M) REPETETIVE MAINTENANCE ACTION REQUIRED: BEFORE EACH FLIGHT:   If deferred defect requires Maintenance Action before each flight, then this box is marked with letter ‘X’.  ONCE A DAY:   If deferred defects require a maintenance action to be performed once during each flight day, then this box is marked with letter ‘X’.  OTHER SPECIFIED:   If deferred defect requires maintenance action before each flight, this box is marked with “X”. Note: If deferred defect requires different maintenance actions “BEFORE EACH FLIGHT” and “OTHER SPECIFIED” for both cases, then period of maintenance action for “OTHER SPECIFIED” shall be clearly defined and both boxes shall be marked with “X”.  G.9. LVO EFFECT:   DI’s on AML effecting aircraft’s LVO status: P R . 5 0 . 0 2 8 | R e v i s i o n 3 0 P r o c e d u r e F o r U s a g e O f A i r c r a f t M a i n t e n a n c e L o g QMS Document Template Number: FR.18.0001 | Revision 12 Document Template Reference Document Number: TL.18.006 Page: 13 | Total Page: 19  644454150252004815761028554305 644454150252004835761028554305 Copy of this document has been generated on 10.03.2026 13:32. Controlled and legally valid originals of all documents can be accessed from the DDMS located at ddms.thy.com. All printed and electronic copies outside of the DDMS are uncontrolled copies.
=== Sayfa 15 ===
Are marked with “X” as NON-CATII if DI drops aircraft’s CATII status. Are marked with “X” as NON-CATIIIA if DI drops aircraft’s CATIIIA status. Are marked with “X” as NON-CATIIIB if DI drops aircraft’s CATIIIB status. Due to any defect if a limitation occurs in aircraft’s LVO configuration, operational departments and MCC shall be immediately informed by personnel who record the limitation to take necessary actions.  G.10. ETOPS EFFECT:   DI’s on AML which are deferred defects or rectifications affecting ETOPS status and: If it is limited, LIMITED box of ETOPS status section on DIL page is marked with “X”. If it downgrades aircraft’s ETOPS status, NON-ETOPS box is marked with “X”.  G.11. DEFERRED ITEM:   The defect on AML deferred according to MEL/CDL, hold items and information that concern flight crew are recorded on this section.  G.12. ID NO/STAMP, SIGN:   Certifying Staff fills out this section by writing his/her company ID number or by stamping if stamp is available and by signing.  G.13. This item transferred to Log page ____item no:___:   If rectification shall be done or MEL One Time Rectification Interval Extension shall be applied, after defect is recorded, the AML page number to which the defect and item number transferred is recorded. Note: Items except the ones included to the maintenance package, even NRWI Form related defects, are transferred to AML page “DEFECT” and “CORRECTIVE ACTION TAKEN” sections from “DEFERRED ITEM” and “DEFERRED ITEM RECTIFICATION” sections and DI is closed with these references.  G.14. DEFERRED ITEM RECTIFICATION:   All the necessary actions taken for rectification of defects which are recorded on DI part are written to this section by pen, in readable and clear manner in English with capital letters.  G.15. DOCUMENT REFERENCE:   The reference and revision number of the document used for the performed actions shall be recorded.  G.16. TYPE OF MAINTENANCE:   Type of maintenance done by B1 or C category Certifying Staff is written during aircraft maintenance release. The “ETOPS” label located at the top left corner of the form is pre-printed on DIL pages used for ETOPS aircraft.  6.5. AML Records at Verification Flights Done After an ETOPS Critical System Failure Rectification  If a verification flight after a defect rectification of an ETOPS critical system defect is an ETOPS flight, verification performed is done during the first 90 minutes of NON-ETOPS segment. AML records for an ETOPS verification flight are done in the following order and manner. Before flight, the defect to be verified is recorded to AML page defect section as a DEFECT by ETOPS Authorized Certifying Staff and “ETOPS VERIFICATION FLIGHT REQUIRED” is written. In this case, TYPE OF FLIGHT section of AML filled out before flight by commander is left blank. Before running out of first 60 minutes of ETOPS segment of the flight, parameters of the system to be verified are tracked by the flight crew and if its concluded that the defect is fixed by the rectification done, TYPE OF FLIGHT is marked as ETOPS by commander and defect is closed by writing “VERIFICATION POSITIVE” to CORRECTIVE ACTION TAKEN section against DEFECT and commander writes his/her name-surname with registration number to CRS section. After this point, the flight is continued as an ETOPS flight. If the verification result is negative, commander marks TYPE OF FLIGHT as NON-ETOPS, defect is closed by writing VERIFICATION NEGATIVE to CORRECTIVE ACTION TAKEN section and depending on conditions decides whether to continue or not with the new plan.  6.6. Hold Item  Defining an open defect as “HOLD ITEM” is under the responsibility of a technician.  If a defect is defined as “hold item” and it is not possible to be rectified at that time, if partial rectification is done and later follow up is required and/or a future date is planned for defect rectification, then rectifications done and/or required to be done are written to “CORRECTIVE ACTION TAKEN” section with their references and “HOLD ITEM” statement is recorded to the end of the section. P R . 5 0 . 0 2 8 | R e v i s i o n 3 0 P r o c e d u r e F o r U s a g e O f A i r c r a f t M a i n t e n a n c e L o g QMS Document Template Number: FR.18.0001 | Revision 12 Document Template Reference Document Number: TL.18.006 Page: 14 | Total Page: 19  644454150252004815761028554305 644454150252004835761028554305 Copy of this document has been generated on 10.03.2026 13:32. Controlled and legally valid originals of all documents can be accessed from the DDMS located at ddms.thy.com. All printed and electronic copies outside of the DDMS are uncontrolled copies.
=== Sayfa 16 ===
“HOLD ITEM” statement indicates that this defect will be recorded as an open item and will be tracked by Maintenance Information System records. Defects defined as “HOLD ITEM” are transferred to DIL page if they concern flight crew as well, otherwise are not transferred to DIL page. Feasibility of Hold Items recorded on Maintenance Information System, are analyzed in terms of time and material by Turkish Technic Inc. Line Maintenance Directorate’s related department. When suitable, defect is rectified and NRWI Form is filled out. Additionally, processes done on HI closed by transfer to AML shall be recorded as temporary or permanent. Likewise, whether a repetitive action is required or not, if required duration with reference is written. NRWI Form must have Maintenance Information System record number for defects recorded on Maintenance Information System. NRWI form is given to the related shop for the work to be done. HI is rectified by the related shop. Certifying Staff closes this item. Later, completed maintenance package and NRWI Form are checked by Turkish Technic Inc. and completed Hold Items are closed by recording to Maintenance Information System.  6.7. Cabin Maintenance Log  Cabin defects which do not affect airworthiness and have no MEL/CDL reference are recorded on Cabin Maintenance Log by senior cabin crew. Explanations for Cabin Maintenance Log are available in   PR.50.030 Procedure for Usage of Cabin Maintenance Log 6. Implementation.  6.8. Traceability  AML defect records are traceable from Maintenance Information System and page copies are accessible from archive.  7. Attachments  FR.50.0018 AML-DIL ETOPS Form FR.50.0019 AML-DIL Form  FR.50.0036 Rectification Interval Extension (RIE) Notification Form FR.50.0056 MEL Authorization Form  FR.50.0142 Rectification Interval Extension (RIE) Record From  8. Table of Revisions  Rev. No.   Contents of Revision  00   First issue 01   Change of content 02   Change of content 03   Change of content 04   Change of content 05   Change of content P R . 5 0 . 0 2 8 | R e v i s i o n 3 0 P r o c e d u r e F o r U s a g e O f A i r c r a f t M a i n t e n a n c e L o g QMS Document Template Number: FR.18.0001 | Revision 12 Document Template Reference Document Number: TL.18.006 Page: 15 | Total Page: 19  644454150252004815761028554305 644454150252004835761028554305 Copy of this document has been generated on 10.03.2026 13:32. Controlled and legally valid originals of all documents can be accessed from the DDMS located at ddms.thy.com. All printed and electronic copies outside of the DDMS are uncontrolled copies.
=== Sayfa 17 ===
06   Change of content 07   Change of content 08   1, 2, 3, 5, 6.1.1, 6.1.2, 6.1.3, 6.1.4 sections were revised and “official log” section was cancelled. 09   Information added to 6.2, 6.3.1, 6.3.4 sections. 10   New definition was added to 3. Section. Changings in section 6.2., 6.3.1. were done. 11   Organizational changing of Line Maintenance Directorate, changings were done in sections 3, 4, 5, 6, and 7. 12   New definitions were added to 3. DEFINITIONS section. Section 6.3.4 was added. 13   The procedure revised to cover aircraft for which Corporate has Continuing Airworthiness Management Organization responsibility instead of aircraft under corporate’s AOC. 14   Maintenance Information System was written instead TAMES. Information added to sections 6.1, 6.2 15   Additional information has been included in section 6.1 and 6.2 16   Additional information and simplifications have been included in section 6.1, 6.2, and 6.4 17   Information have been included and removed from section 6.1 and 6.2. 18   Information added/removed in 3.DEFINITION section. Information about FR.50.0036 Rectification Interval Extension (RIE) Notification Form added in section 6.3.3. Information added in section 6.7. 19   Quality Assurance Directorate is removed from approval process in section 6.3.3. 20 OM-Part-A and ETOPS MPM references have been added to section 5.Reference Documents of the procedure. Recording logbook the flight information of training flights and information about pre-flight inspection have been added to 6.2 section. Information about MEL one time extention has been added to 6.3.3 section. In case of incorrect AML printing, the method to be followed is defined in 6.1 section. Additional information about the assessment of structural damages has been added to 6.2 section. 21 Engineering Forms Which are Required to be Filled Out by Pilots is removed from 3. Definitions section, additional information inserted into DIL section. Additional information inserted to 6.1 section. Additional information inserted into 6.2 section DEFECT, CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE, ITEM NO, CHECK TYPE, PRE-FLIGHT INSPECTION sections. Additinal information inserted into 6.3.3 and 6.3.5 and simplification done on these sections. 22   In section 6.3.3, it is added that when LS.50.044 List of Staff in Charge of MEL Rectification Interval Extension is updated, it is sent to DGCA for information purposes. P R . 5 0 . 0 2 8 | R e v i s i o n 3 0 P r o c e d u r e F o r U s a g e O f A i r c r a f t M a i n t e n a n c e L o g QMS Document Template Number: FR.18.0001 | Revision 12 Document Template Reference Document Number: TL.18.006 Page: 16 | Total Page: 19  644454150252004815761028554305 644454150252004835761028554305 Copy of this document has been generated on 10.03.2026 13:32. Controlled and legally valid originals of all documents can be accessed from the DDMS located at ddms.thy.com. All printed and electronic copies outside of the DDMS are uncontrolled copies.
=== Sayfa 18 ===
23   Organizational regulations are reflected. Department titles are updated, spelling mistakes have corrected. 24 According to the requisition of Turkish DGCA previous statement in Table of Revisions, “Revised because of the transfer of subcontracted engineering company services which are previously transferred Turkish Technic Inc. to the Turkish Airlines Company” is updated as “Revised because of the transfer of important portion of subcontracted engineering company services which are previously transferred Turkish Technic Inc. to the Turkish Airlines Company.” Definitions of Subcontracted Engineering Company, Contracted Maintenance Organization and Non-Routine Work Item are updated and Task Authorized Technician definition is added. B787 and A350 ETOPS manuals are added to the section of Reference Documents. In section 6.1, the Maintenance Information System and archiving process were defined for the use of the recurring AML page. Figure 1 has been updated to reflect the changing AML format. In section 6.2, the Brand Name field has been added for entering the brand of de-icing/anti-icing fluid. The section for filling in the CRS section for items requiring independent verification by the Approving Personnel has been updated. The procedure for corrective actions that do not fit in a single field has been described. In section 6.2, the situation to be taken for corrective actions that do not fit in one digit is described. In section 6.2, the requirement for applying the Transit Check/EPDSC maintenance card in case of aircraft failure after the application of DEPARTURE ITEMS has been incorporated into the procedure. The relevant unit section of the APU in-flight start program has been updated to reflect the new organization in section 6.2. In section 6.3.1, an addition has been made to the recording of MEL items that impose operational constraints in the DIL. In section 6.3.3, Turkish Technic Inc. departments have been added, and the conditions for extending MEL time have been revised. In section 6.3.5, an addition has been made to the process of recording a fault in the new DIL during maintenance. 25 In Referred Documents, LS.10.18.002 Compliance And Management Systems Definitions And Abbreviations List definitions have been added. In section 6.1 General Rules, the phrase name of the unit performing operation is written as responsible instead of "Subcontracted Engineering Company". In section 6.2 Filling Out of AML Pages, the unit that authorizing one off authorization is updated as Turkish Technic Inc. In section 6.3.3 Re-deferment of Deferred Defects, MEL document has been updated according to statement written in the Preamble section. In section 6.6 Hold Item, the unit that monitors Hold Items in Maintenance Information System is updated as Turkish Technic Inc. 26 1. Purpose and 2. Scope sections, “of the aircraft which are operated under the Company’s SHY-6A and SHY-6B Air Operator Certificates in the scope of Continuing Airworthiness Management Responsibility.” statement has been added due to “AC.2407.7001” numbered action of “FD.2024.9368” numbered finding of “Turkish Airlines Midterm and Change Management Audit” was performed by Turkish DGCA between 01-05 April 2024 dates. As of 01.09.2024, the changed organizational structure Technical Directorate is reflected in sections 3. Definitions, 6.2. Filling Out of AML Pages and 6.3.3 Re-deferment of Deferred Defects. 27   Recording of structural damages to DIL in the "Deferred Item List" section in the 3. Definitions has been moved to section 6.3.1. Deferment of Defects and the process of adding structural damage/repairs up to 2 FC to DIL has been described. 3. Definitions, the definition of "Commander" has been updated according to EK.10.73.001 Operations Manual Part- A. P R . 5 0 . 0 2 8 | R e v i s i o n 3 0 P r o c e d u r e F o r U s a g e O f A i r c r a f t M a i n t e n a n c e L o g QMS Document Template Number: FR.18.0001 | Revision 12 Document Template Reference Document Number: TL.18.006 Page: 17 | Total Page: 19  644454150252004815761028554305 644454150252004835761028554305 Copy of this document has been generated on 10.03.2026 13:32. Controlled and legally valid originals of all documents can be accessed from the DDMS located at ddms.thy.com. All printed and electronic copies outside of the DDMS are uncontrolled copies.
=== Sayfa 19 ===
In the 6.1 General Principles section, the sentence "If more than one AML page has been filled out due to number of defects, it is a regulatory obligation to sign the “Pre-flight inspection” section of the last filled AML page when the aircraft is received by the flight crew. " has been paraphrased. 6.2. In the Filling out of AML Pages section, the expression of critical item has been edited. 6.2. In the Filling out AML Pages section, the expression "flight crew" has been changed to "commander" under the headings H. APU IN-FLIGHT START PROGRAM and I. LVO APPROACH according to EK.10.73.001 Operations Manual Part-A. 28 6.2. Filling Out of AML Pages section, “Defects, MEL/CDL items, HOLD items and if they have any periodic follow-up requirements such as “due date/FC/FH” are tracked and controlled on daily basis by means of Maintenance Information System by Technical Directorate.” Statement has been included under the title of D.1. Defect. 6.4. Filling out of DIL Page section, the undermentioned changes have been performed. DIL page samples have been changed. “MEL/CDL Ref.:” statement has been revised as “MEL/CDL/HOLD Ref.:” under the title of G.6. article. The head of G.7. article has been revised “DUE DATE, DUE IN FC, DUE IN FH” and “The latest rectification date, total flight cycles (FH), and total flight hours (FH) during which the flight can be performed are specified based on the deferred defect’s category in the MEL or the reference in the manufacturer’s documentation. For deferred defects that must be rectified upon return to the main maintenance base, the “RETURN TO MAIN BASE” checkbox is selected, and the planned arrival date is entered in the “DUE DATE” field in the ___/__/20_ format.” statement has been included. G.8. ID NO/STAMP, SIGN: article has been revised as G.12. article. G.7. DEFERRED ITEM: article has been revised as G.11. article. The head of G.9. (M) MAINTENANCE ACTION REQUIRED article has been revised as G.8. (M) REPETETIVE MAINTENANCE ACTION REQUIRED: and “ONCE A DAY: If deferred defects require a maintenance action to be performed once during each flight day, then this box is marked with letter ‘X’.” statement has been included. G.11. LVO EFFECT article has been revised as G.9.LVO EFFECT article. G.12. This item transferred to log page _____ Item No: ____: article has been revised as G.13. article. G.13. DEFERRED ITEM RECTIFICATION: article has been revised as G.14. article. G.15. ETOPS article has been deleted and DOCUMENT REFERENCE: article has been added as G.15. article and “The reference and revision number of the document used for the performed actions shall be recorded.” statement has been included. G.14. TYPE OF MAINTENANCE: article has been revised as G.16. article. “The “ETOPS” label located at the top left corner of the form is pre-printed on DIL pages used for ETOPS aircraft.” statement has been included. P R . 5 0 . 0 2 8 | R e v i s i o n 3 0 P r o c e d u r e F o r U s a g e O f A i r c r a f t M a i n t e n a n c e L o g QMS Document Template Number: FR.18.0001 | Revision 12 Document Template Reference Document Number: TL.18.006 Page: 18 | Total Page: 19  644454150252004815761028554305 644454150252004835761028554305 Copy of this document has been generated on 10.03.2026 13:32. Controlled and legally valid originals of all documents can be accessed from the DDMS located at ddms.thy.com. All printed and electronic copies outside of the DDMS are uncontrolled copies.
=== Sayfa 20 ===
29 5. In the References and Documents Referred section, LS.10.18.002 Compliance and Management Systems Definitions and Abbreviations List has been removed from the Referenced Documents section and added to the Referred Documents section as LS.18.146 Compliance and Management Systems Definitions and Abbreviations List. 6.3 In the Deferment of Defects and Closure of Deferred Defects section, the process statement in the first paragraph has been updated as follows: "If a defect recorded in the 'DEFECT' section of the Aircraft Maintenance Log (AML) cannot be rectified and, according to the Minimum Equipment List (MEL) or Configuration Deviation List (CDL), does not prevent the safe dispatch of the aircraft, the defect shall be recorded as a Deferred Defect (DI) on the FR.50.0019 AML-DIL Form for non-ETOPS aircraft or on the FR.50.0018 AML-DIL ETOPS Form for ETOPS aircraft." 7. Attachments section has been updated to include FR.50.0018 AML-DIL ETOPS Form and FR.50.0019 AML-DIL Form." 30 Section 3. Definitions, “EDMS” has been added. Section   5.   References   and   Documents   Referred,   PR.50.045   Procedure   for Trainings   Provided   to   Contracted Maintenance Organizations is removed. Section 6.2. Filling Out of AML Pages, has been temporarily added with the note: “Any SHY documentation located in stocks and referenced in the CRS statement is to be deleted by Technical Operations Directorate staff within 15 days of the procedure revision is published. The documentation is then annotated with 'SHT' and initialed with 'TB'. Following initialing, the pages are recorded and stored in EDMS, linked to the aircraft registration and page numbers, as part of the aircraft maintenance records.” until the stocks are corrected. Section 6.3. Deferment of Defects and Closure of Deferred Defects, “MEL usage training is explained in PR.50.045 Procedure   for   Trainings   Provided   to   Contracted   Maintenance   Organizations   6.   Implementation.”   definition   is removed. Section 6.3.1. Deferment of Defects, “/1 day” has been added. Section 6.3.4. MEL Reference Change of Deferred Defect, “category” has been added. Section 6.6. Hold Item, the phrase “then rectifications done or required to be done are written to “CORRECTIVE ACTION TAKEN” section with their references and “HOLD ITEM” statement is recorded to the end of the section.” has been added to “/and”. P R . 5 0 . 0 2 8 | R e v i s i o n 3 0 P r o c e d u r e F o r U s a g e O f A i r c r a f t M a i n t e n a n c e L o g QMS Document Template Number: FR.18.0001 | Revision 12 Document Template Reference Document Number: TL.18.006 Page: 19 | Total Page: 19  644454150252004815761028554305 644454150252004835761028554305 Copy of this document has been generated on 10.03.2026 13:32. Controlled and legally valid originals of all documents can be accessed from the DDMS located at ddms.thy.com. All printed and electronic copies outside of the DDMS are uncontrolled copies.