OVERWEIGHT LANDING
Should an overweight landing be required,
a long straight in approach, or a wide visual pattern, should be flown
in order to configure the aircraft for an early stabilized approach.  At very high weights,  VFE
CONF  1 is close to  VLS  clean. To select  CONF  1, deselect  A/THR , decelerate to (or slightly below)  VLS  and select  CONF  1 when below  VFE .
When established at  CONF  1, the crew can reengage  A/THR  and use managed speed again.  The early
stabilized approach technique should be used, and  VAPP  established
at the  FAF . The speed will be reduced to reach  VLS  at runway threshold, to minimize the aircraft energy.  At high
weight,  VFE  NEXT ( CONF  1 or  CONF  2)
may be below the manoeuvring speed (Green Dot or  S  speed).
To extend the Slats/Flaps, the crew must select the speed on  FCU  to decelerate to  VFE  NEXT.  At very high weight, if  VFE
CONF  1 is below  VLS , the flight crew must disconnect the  A/THR  to
decelerate to  VFE
CONF  1.  When established at  CONF  1 or  CONF  2, the crew can reengage  A/THR  (if
disconnected) and use manage speed again.
The crew will elect the landing
configuration based on landing performance computation:
If aircraft
weight is below the maximum weight for go-around in  CONF  3, landing will be performed  CONF  full (and go-around  CONF  3) as it is the preferred configuration for optimized
landing performance
If aircraft
weight is above the maximum weight for go-around in  CONF  3, landing will be performed  CONF  3 (and go-around  CONF  1+F). The  CONF  1+F meets the approach climb
gradient requirement in all cases (high weights, high altitude and
temperature).
If a go-around  CONF  1+F is carried out following an approach  CONF  3,  VLS
CONF  1+F may be higher than  VLS
CONF  3  +5 . The recommendation in such a case
is to follow  SRS  orders which will accelerate the aircraft
up to the displayed  VLS . It should be noted, however, that  VLS
CONF  1+F equates to 1.23  VS1g  whereas
the minimum go-around speed required by regulations is 1.13  VS1g .  This requirement is always satisfied.  The crew should be aware that the transition
from  -3  flight path angle to go around climb gradient requires
a lot of energy and therefore some altitude loss.  Taking into account the runway landing distance available, the use
of brakes should be modulated to avoid very hot brakes and the risk
of tire deflation.  When the aircraft weight exceeds the
maximum landing weight, structural considerations impose the ability
to touch down at  360  without damage. Thus, if vertical
speed exceeds  360  at touch down, a maintenance inspection
is required.
OVERWEIGHT LANDING
Should an overweight landing be required,
a long straight in approach, or a wide visual pattern, should be flown
in order to configure the aircraft for an early stabilized approach.  The early stabilized approach technique
should be used, and  VAPP  established at the  FAF . The speed will be reduced to reach  VLS  at runway threshold,
to minimize the aircraft energy.  At high
weight,  VFE  NEXT ( CONF  1 or  CONF  2)
may be below the manoeuvring speed (Green Dot or  S  speed).
To extend the Slats/Flaps, the crew must select the speed on  FCU  to decelerate to  VFE  NEXT.  At very high weight, if  VFE
CONF  1 is below  VLS , the flight crew must disconnect the  A/THR  to
decelerate to  VFE
CONF  1.  When established at  CONF  1 or  CONF  2, the crew
can reengage  A/THR  (if disconnected) and use manage speed
again.
The crew will elect the landing
configuration based on landing performance computation:
If aircraft
weight is below the maximum weight for go-around in  CONF  3, landing will be performed  CONF  full (and go-around  CONF  3) as it is the preferred configuration for optimized
landing performance
If aircraft
weight is above the maximum weight for go-around in  CONF  3, landing will be performed  CONF  3 (and go-around  CONF  1+F). The  CONF  1+F meets the approach climb
gradient requirement in all cases (high weights, high altitude and
temperature).
If a go-around  CONF  1+F is carried out following an approach  CONF  3,  VLS
CONF  1+F may be higher than  VLS
CONF  3  +5 . The recommendation in such a case
is to follow  SRS  orders which will accelerate the aircraft
up to the displayed  VLS . It should be noted, however, that  VLS
CONF  1+F equates to 1.23  VS1g  whereas
the minimum go-around speed required by regulations is 1.13  VS1g .  This requirement is always satisfied.  The crew should be aware that the transition
from  -3  flight path angle to go around climb gradient requires
a lot of energy and therefore some altitude loss.  Taking into account the runway landing distance available, the use
of brakes should be modulated to avoid very hot brakes and the risk
of tire deflation.  When the aircraft weight exceeds the
maximum landing weight, structural considerations impose the ability
to touch down at  360  without damage. Thus, if vertical
speed exceeds  360  at touch down, a maintenance inspection
is required.
FCTM Purpose
The Flight Crew Techniques Manual ( FCTM ) provides complementary information to the Flight Crew
Operating Manual ( FCOM ).
The  FCTM  provides
the flight crew with:
The general
Airbus operational philosophy (e.g. design and utilization principles,
golden rules for pilots)
Additional information
to the  FCOM  procedures (the “why" to do and the “how"
to do)
Best practices,
operating techniques on maneuvers, and handling
Information
on situation awareness.
If the  FCTM  data differs from the  FCOM  data, the  FCOM  remains the reference.
Objective
The Airbus cockpit is designed to achieve
the operational needs of the flight crew throughout the aircraft operating
environment, while ensuring the maximum of commonality within the
Fly-By-Wire family.
The design of the
cockpit is built according to 10 high level design requirements:
The flight crew
is ultimately responsible for the safe operation of the aircraft
If required,
the flight crew can exercise their full authority by performing intuitive
actions, while aiming at eliminating the risks of overstress or overcontrol
Accommodate
for a wide range of pilot skill levels and experience acquired on
previous aircraft
Ensure safety,
passenger comfort, and efficiency, in that order of priority
Simplify the
tasks of the flight crew, by enhancing situation and aircraft status
awareness
The automation
is considered as an additional feature available to the flight crew,
who can decide when to delegate and what level of assistance they
need in accordance with the situation
The design of
the Human Machine Interfaces ( HMI ) takes into account system
features together with the strengths and weaknesses of the flight
crew
The state of
the art of the human factors considerations are applied in the system
design process, in order to manage the potential errors of the flight
crew
The overall
cockpit design contributes to facilitate and to enhance the flight
crew communication (e.g. tasksharing, teamworking)
The use of new technologies
and implementation of new functionalities are imposed by:
Significant
safety benefits
Obvious operational
advantages
A clear response
to the needs of the flight crew.
Arrangement of Panels
General
The purpose of the layout of the forward
facing cockpit is to take into account the operational requirements
for a two pilot-cockpit.
This layout enables:
To significantly
reduce the flight crew workload
To optimize
the tasksharing
To minimize
“Head down" time.
The location of the main controls
takes into account:
The relative
importance of each system
The frequency
of operation by the pilots
The ease with
which controls can be reached
The shape of
the control (designed to prevent confusion)
The duplication
of control, if required.
Overhead Panel
The system control panels linked to an
engine are vertically organized, in order to permit the accomplishment
of Normal/Abnormal procedures in a straight forward and intuitive
manner. In addition, this arrangement aims at minimizing the errors
of the flight crew.
Glareshield
The glareshield supports the short term
tactical controls for the Auto Flight System ( AFS ).  The operation of the controls can be
achieved “Head Up" and within easy access for both pilots.
Main Instrument panel
The main instrument panel mainly
supports the display units which are necessary to:
FLY ( PFD / HUD )
NAVIGATE ( ND )
COMMUNICATE
(  DCDU  )
MONITOR the
various aircraft systems ( ECAM ).
The display
units are located in the full and non-obstructed view of both pilots.
Pedestal
The pedestal mainly supports
the controls for:
Engine and thrust
(engine master levers, thrust levers)
Aircraft configuration
(speed brake lever, flaps lever, rudder trim)
Navigation ( MCDU ,  FMS )
Communication
( RMP ).
Alerts
Alert Triggering
As a general rule, an alert
is required when:
A system failure
occurs
The aircraft
violates the normal flight envelope
An unexpected
event related to safety occurs (e.g.  TCAS ,  TAWS )
An outside message
is coming up (e.g. cabin,  ATC )
A system automatically
changes its mode of operation (e.g.  AP  auto-disconnection,
mode reversion).
The alerts:
Trigger visual
and/or aural indications
Are ranked by
severity and priority
Are inhibited
when not relevant in some specific flight phases.
Alert Indication
The alerts indications are presented
to the flight crew as follows:
Initial indication
(visual or aural)  via the MASTER CAUTION or MASTER  WARNING
The Engine Warning
Display ( EWD ) displays the title of the alert related to
the failure
The System Display
( SD ) automatically displays the affected system
On the overhead
panel, the pushbutton/pushbutton-switch light of the affected system
comes on in amber or red.
The flight crew is responsible
to take any appropriate or required action to ensure a safe operation
of the aircraft, even in the absence of alert(s) and shall take into
account the entire operational environment.
Dark Cockpit Concept for Overhead Panel
Most of the systems are controlled
from the overhead panel via:
Pushbutton
Pushbutton switch
Switch
Knob, knob-selector.
Each pushbutton/pushbutton switch
has one or two lights:
The upper one
is dedicated to alert or system status (e.g.  FAULT ,  OPEN ).  If no alert or system
status is required, two gray dots replace the light.
The lower one corresponds:
On pushbutton
switch, to the control selection of the system (e.g. ON, OFF,  OVRD ), or
On pushbutton,
to the system status.
If no control
system selection is required, two gray dots replace the light.
The general
operational rule is: Light out philosophy. The systems are ready and
fit to fly.
Color Coding
Display Units
The information provided on
the display units is color coded to indicate:
The status of
the system ( ECAM  or  FMA )
The status of
the mode ( FMA )
The nature of
the information (e.g. title of an alert, action to be performed, information).
Pushbutton/Pushbutton Switch Light
The information provided on
the pushbutton/pushbutton switch is also color coded to indicate the
status of the system:
Amber: Indicates
that a system is failed
Red: Indicates
a failure that may require an immediate corrective action
Green: Indicates
that a system operates normally
Blue: Indicates
the normal operation of a temporarily selected system
White: Indicates
the abnormal position of a pushbutton switch or maintenance/test result
indication
Blank: The system
is fit to fly.
Need to See Concept
The  DU s may display information
that can potentially overload the flight crew.
In order to prevent this situation,
some principles have been established to provide the flight crew with
the right information, at the right time:
The right information
in a given flight phase
Uncluttered,
and non-overloaded “need to show" data
Redundant, or
consolidated data for safety related parameters
Predictive information
on essential parameters.
Less Paper Cockpit
The less paper cockpit concept:
Improves the
access to pilots' operational information and simplifies some
of their tasks
Reduces the number of paper
documents in the cockpit and replaces them by electronic ones:
Improving information
access and search
Enabling quicker
and easier updates.
Fly-By-Wire
General
The relationship between the pilot input
on the sidestick, and the aircraft response, is called the control
law.  The control
law determines the handling characteristics of the aircraft.
Flight Control Protections
The purpose of the flight control
protections is to:
Give full authority
to the flight crew, in order to enable them to obtain the best aircraft
performance with an instinctive, immediate action on the related control
Minimize the
possibility of over-controlling, overstressing, or damaging the aircraft.
One of the  PF 's primary tasks is to maintain the aircraft
within the limits of the normal flight envelope. However, some circumstances,
due to extreme situations or aircraft mishandling, may provoke the
violation of these limits.  Despite system protections,
the  PF  must not deliberately exceed the normal flight envelope.
In addition, these protections are not designed to be structural limit
protections (e.g. opposite rudder pedal inputs). Rather, they are
designed to assist the  PF  in emergency and stressful situations,
where only instinctive and rapid reactions will be effective.
Sidestick
Operational Benefits
The main operational benefits
of the side-mounted stick:
It enables a
non-obstructed view of the main instrument panel
It is adapted
for emergency situations (e.g. incapacitation, stick jamming, control
failures)
It fits comfortably
into the hand with a correct adjustment of the armrest
It makes the
sliding table installation possible (e.g. for maps, documents, meals).
When the autopilot is engaged:
The sidesticks
are locked in neutral position (immediate tactile feedback)
There is no
possibility of simultaneous input from the flight crew and the autopilot
The autopilot
can be disconnected instinctively, at any time, by a firm pressure
on the sidestick.
Thrust/Autothrust
Non Back-Driven Thrust Lever Concept
Airbus has selected the non-back-driven
thrust lever concept:
The flight crew
can easily and intuitively monitor the energy of the aircraft via
current energy cues (speed, speed trend,  HUD chevrons , engine parameters), and not via ambiguous thrust levers movement
When the autothrust
is engaged, the Thrust Lever Position determines the maximum authorized
thrust that may be commanded by the autothrust
When the flight
crew uses manual thrust, the Thrust Lever Position determines the
current thrust (as on any aircraft not equipped with autothrust).
Use of Sidestick
Only one flight crew flies at a time.
If the  PM  wants to
act on the sidestick, the  PM  must:
Clearly announce
“I have control"
Press and maintain
the sidestick pushbutton, in order to get full control of the Fly-By-Wire
system.
The flight
crew should keep in mind that sidestick inputs are algebraically added.
Therefore dual inputs must be avoided, and will trigger aural and
visual alerts.  Either
flight crew can make an input on their sidestick at any time.  Either flight crew can deactivate the
other flight crew’s sidestick by pressing on their sidestick pb.
What For?
The objectives of the procedures
are to:
Share a common
practice, in order to ensure a safe and efficient flight
Organize tasksharing
and teamworking
Guide pilots
actions (interface between the flight crew and the aircraft).
General Design and Utilization Principles
The procedures are consistent with the
Airbus aircraft design philosophy.  The procedures are divided into routine,
and not-routine procedures.  They are
easy to identify and to understand.  The pilots are trained to use and strictly
apply the procedures.  The tasksharing
and a standard communication process are clearly defined, in order
to ensure a safe and efficient use of the procedures.
Normal Procedures - Standard Operating Procedures (SOP)
General
During the daily normal operations of
the aircraft, the flight crew performs actions frequently.  These actions are identified as routine
tasks. The routine tasks are supported by the Standard Operating Procedures
( SOP s).
SOP  Design Principles
SOP  are designed
according to the following principles:
One  SOP  per flight phase
Actions are
described in a chronological order
Actions are
easy to memorize and to apply (cockpit scan, actions flow).
SOP  design is effective
provided that:
All systems
operate normally
All automatic
functions are used normally.
Some  SOP  actions are checked against checklists.
SOP  Utilization Principles
The flight crew should perform  SOP  actions by memory. The flight crew can also decide to refer
to the  QRH , in order to perform both the Preliminary Cockpit
Preparation and Securing the Aircraft procedures.
Normal Procedures - Supplementary Procedures
General
During the daily normal operations of
the aircraft, the flight crew may have to perform actions which are
not part of the  SOP  , i.e. not frequently done. These actions
are identified as not-routine tasks dedicated to not-routine situation
(e.g. airframe deicing/anti-icing procedures on ground, manual engine
start). The not-routine tasks are supported by the Supplementary Procedures.  The flight
crew must perform not-routine actions, using the READ & DO principle.
Supplementary Procedures Design Principles
The Supplementary Procedures
are designed according to the following principles:
Easy to identify
and to understand
One Supplementary
Procedure for a given situation
Actions are
described in a chronological order.
Supplementary Procedures Utilization Principles
Supplementary Procedures utilization
is effective provided that the flight crew performs the Supplementary
Procedures using the READ & DO principle (generally done by the  PM ).
Abnormal and Emergency Procedures
Abnormal and Emergency Procedures Design Principles
These procedures are not-routine, classified
in abnormal or emergency, and prioritized in accordance with the criticality
of the situation.
An abnormal or emergency procedure
is initiated following:
A system failure,
or
An operational
context.
The design of an abnormal or
emergency procedure is defined as:
A MEMORY ITEM,
when the flight crew has no time to refer to the  ECAM / QRH / FCOM  to ensure a safe flight path, or
AN  OEB  IMMEDIATE ACTION, when the flight crew has no time to refer to specific  OEB  actions to ensure a safe flight path, or
A READ &
DO procedure that is handled via the  ECAM ,  QRH ,  FCOM , or  OEB .
The type
of procedure is easy to identify:
[MEM] MEMORY ITEMS
ECAM  Procedures
[ QRH ] Procedures
MEMORY
READ & DO
Abnormal and Emergency Procedures Utilization Principles
The utilization of abnormal and emergency
procedures follows the here below principle:
WHEN?
HOW?
Memory
Items
Immediately
Memory
OEB  Immediate Actions
Immediately
Memory
Abnormal/Emergency
Procedures  ECAM / QRH / FCOM / OEB
When appropriate
READ &
DO
General
A correct application of tasksharing
and communication rules ensures a safe and effective operation of
the aircraft.
NORMAL OPERATIONS
GENERAL
It is the responsibility of
the  PF  to:
FLY
NAVIGATE.
It is the responsibility of
the  PM  to:
MONITOR the
flight path, the navigation and the aircraft systems
COMMUNICATE.
However,
when necessary, the flight crew may re-allocate the tasks, as required.
SUPPLEMENTARY PROCEDURES
For Supplementary Procedures,
the flight crew should use the following tasksharing:
If the procedure is related to engine start, it is recommended
to read the entire procedure first, and then:
The  PM  reads the actions, and
The  PF  acts on the controls.
In the case of one engine taxi
at departure, the  PM  can act on the engine master lever.
For all other supplementary procedures:
The procedures should be applied in accordance with the READ &
DO principle, i.e. the  PM  reads the procedure and the  PF  or the  PM  acts on the controls, depending on
the context.
Abnormal operations
It is the responsibility of
the  PF  to:
FLY,
NAVIGATE
COMMUNICATE after the initiation
of:
The  ECAM  actions, or
A  QRH  procedure.
It is the responsibility of
the  PM  to:
MONITOR the
flight path and the navigation
Perform  ECAM  actions or apply  QRH / OEB  procedure.
During the  ECAM  management
process or the application of a  QRH / OEB  procedure,
the “COM" task is transferred to the  PF , as the cognitive
skills of the  PM  are mostly dedicated to the understanding
and the application of the  ECAM / QRH / OEB  actions. Therefore, their situation awareness of the environment
and the navigation is less effective than the  PF ’s one.
FCU and EFIS Control Panels
General
The  FCU , the  EFIS
CP  and the  MCDU  must be used in
accordance with specific rules, in order to ensure:
Safe operation
(correct entries made)
Effective inter-pilot
communication (knowing each other’s intentions).
FCU  and  EFIS
CP  selections
Selection of
Engagement by
PF
PM
AP  /
A/THR
DISCONNECTION: YES
(via instinctive disconnect
pb)  ENGAGEMENT: YES
DISCONNECTION: NO  ENGAGEMENT: upon  PF  request
FD
NO
Upon  PF  request
Other Selections on
Engagement by
PF
PM
FCU
( AP  OFF)
NO
Upon  PF  request
FCU
( AP  ON)
YES
Upon  PF  request
EFIS
CP
The  PF  and
the  PM  must perform their onside  EFIS
CP  selections
FMS Entries via MCDU
Below  10000 , entries should
be restricted to those that have an operational effect:
PERF
APPR
DIR  TO
NAVAIDS
Late change
of runway
Activate  SEC
F-PLN
ENABLE  ALTN .
Time consuming entries must
be performed at all times:
By the  PM  upon  PF  request, or
By the  PF  after a temporary transfer of controls to the  PM .
Introduction
Two flying references may be
used on the  PFD :
The attitude
The Flight Path
Vector ( FPV ), called the "bird".
The "bird"
is the flight reference that should be used when flying a stabilized
segment of trajectory, e.g. approach using  FPA  guidance
or visual circuit.
When  TRK / FPA  is selected on the  FCU , the "bird" is the flight reference with the  TRK  and  FPA  as basic guidance parameters.  In dynamic maneuvers, the "bird"
is directly affected by the aircraft inertia and has a delayed reaction.
As a result, the "bird" should not be used as a flight reference
in dynamic maneuvers.
When  HDG / VS  is
selected on the  FCU , the "bird" is off, and the
attitude is the flight reference with  HDG  and  VS  as basic guidance parameters.
The attitude flight reference should
be used for dynamic maneuvers, for example, take-off or go-around.
An action on the sidestick has an immediate effect on the aircraft
attitude. The flight crew can monitor this flight reference directly
and accurately during these maneuvers.
Reliability
The bird is computed from  IRS  data and is affected by inertial errors. During the approach, the
flight crew may detect a small track error, usually up to +/-  2 .  The bird is also computed from static pressure information. Therefore,
if the altitude information is not reliable, the flight crew must
consider the bird as not reliable.
Managed and Selected Modes
The choice of mode is a strategic decision
that is taken by the  PF .
Managed modes require:
Good  FMS  navigation accuracy (or  GPS  PRIMARY)
An appropriate
ACTIVE  F-PLN  (i.e. the intended lateral and vertical trajectory
is entered, and the sequencing of the  F-PLN  is monitored).
If these
two conditions are not fulfilled, revert to selected mode.
Main Interfaces with the AP/FD
*The  DIR TO  function is an
exception to this rule.
Operational Techniques
With the  FMS , anticipate
flight plan updates by preparing:
EN ROUTE DIVERSIONS
DIVERSION TO  ALTN
CIRCLING
LATE CHANGE
OF  RWY
This enables the  MCDU  to be used for short-term actions.
AP/FD Monitoring
The  FMA  indicates the status
of the  AP ,  FD  and  A/THR  and their
corresponding operating modes. The  PF  must monitor the  FMA  and announce any  FMA  change. The flight crew
uses the  FCU  or  MCDU  to give orders to the  AP / FD . The aircraft is expected to fly in accordance
with these orders.
The main concern for the flight
crew should be:
WHAT IS THE AIRCRAFT EXPECTED TO FLY NOW?
WHAT IS THE AIRCRAFT EXPECTED TO FLY NEXT?
If the aircraft does not fly
as expected:
If in managed
mode, select the desired target, or
Disengage the
autopilot, and fly the aircraft manually.
Recommended Practice for Autopilot (AP) Engagement
Before engaging the  AP , the flight crew should:
Fly the aircraft
on the intended path
Check on the  FMA  that the Flight Director ( FD ) is engaged with
the appropriate guidance modes for the intended flight path. If not,
set the  FD  on, and the appropriate guidance mode(s) as
required
Center the  FD  bars with the aircraft symbol on the  PFD .
Engaging the  AP  while
large orders are required to achieve the intended flight path may
result in an  AP  overshoot of the intended vertical or lateral
target. This situation can surprise the flight crew, due to the resulting
large pitch/roll changes and thrust variations.
Use of the FD without the AP
When manually flying the aircraft with
the  FD s ON, the  FD  bars or the  FPD  symbol provide lateral and vertical orders in accordance with the
active modes that the flight crew selects.
Therefore:
Fly with a centered  FD  or  FPD
If not using  FD  orders, turn off the  FD . It is strongly recommended
to turn off the  FD s to ensure that the  A/THR  is in SPEED mode if the  A/THR  is active.
Intruder Classification
Intruder
Display on ND
Type of Collision
Threat
Audio Indicator
Crew Action
No threat traffic
or others
No threat
-
-
Proximate
Consider as no threat
-
-
Traffic Advisory ( TA )
Possible threat
"TRAFFIC TRAFFIC"
No maneuver to avoid
traffic.
Resolution Advisory
( RA )
Collision threat
Preventive (e.g. MONITOR  V/S )
Do not change the
flight path. Maintain  V/S  out of the red area.
Corrective (e.g. CLIMB)
Smoothly and firmly
( 0.25 ) follow the green area of the  V/S  scale within  5 .
Corrective (e.g. CLIMB
NOW or INCREASE CLIMB)
Smoothly and firmly
( 0.35 ) follow the green area of the  V/S  scale within  2.5 .
In some dynamic situations the  TCAS  may generate an  RA  without a previous  TA . This type of situation is associated to a rapid change
in the intruder detection category.
Intruder Classification
Intruder
Display on ND
Type of Collision
Threat
Audio Indicator
Flight Crew Response
AP/FD TCAS not available
AP/FD TCAS without
AP
AP/FD TCAS with AP
No threat traffic
or others
No threat
-
-
-
-
Proximate
Consider as no threat
-
-
-
-
Traffic Advisory ( TA )
Possible threat
"TRAFFIC TRAFFIC"
No maneuver to avoid
traffic.
Monitor  AP / FD
TCAS  mode arming. No maneuver to avoid
traffic.
Resolution Advisory
( RA )
Collision threat
Preventive (e.g. MONITOR  V/S )
Do not change the
flight path. Maintain  V/S  out of the red area.
Follow the FDs.  Monitor that  V/S  remains out of the red area.
Monitor that  V/S  remains out of the red area.
Corrective (e.g. CLIMB)
Smoothly and firmly
( 0.25 ) follow the green area of the  V/S  scale within  5 .
Smoothly and firmly
follow the  FD s.  Monitor that  V/S  exits the red area, and remains in the green area.
Monitor that  V/S  exits the red area, and remains in the green area.
Corrective (e.g. CLIMB
NOW or INCREASE CLIMB)
Smoothly and firmly
( 0.35 ) follow the green area of the  V/S  scale within  2.5 .
Smoothly and firmly
follow the  FD s.  Monitor that  V/S  exits the red area, and remains in the green area.
Monitor that  V/S  exits the red area, and remains in the green area.
In  AP / FD
TCAS  mode, the load factor authority of the guidance
law is increased.
In some dynamic situations the  TCAS  may generate an  RA  without a previous  TA . This type of situation is associated to a rapid change
in the intruder detection category.
Operational Recommendations
ALL is the default selection. The flight
crew may select another mode depending on the situation.  For more information,  .
TA  shall be selected
in the case of:
Engine failure
Known nearby
traffic, which is in visual contact
Flight with
landing gear down
Operations at
specific airports, and during specific procedures that an operator
identifies as having a significant potential for not wanted and not
appropriate  RA s, e.g. closely spaced parallel runways,
converging runways.
If  TA  is selected
(TA ONLY mode), the AP/FD  TCAS  mode will
not arm.
Use of AP/FD TCAS Mode
When the AP/FD  TCAS  mode is available, the flight crew should use the AP/FD  TCAS  mode. In the case the AP/FD  TCAS  mode is not available (e.g. the AP/FD mode
is failed or the aircraft is not equipped with the AP/FD TCAS mode)
the flight crew must apply the " TCAS  procedure without  AP / FD
TCAS "
chapter "TCAS Procedure without
AP/FD TCAS" .
TA
If a  TA  is triggered, the
flight crew should check the immediate arming of the AP/FD  TCAS  mode, and the engagement status of the  AP  and  A/THR .
TCAS  on the  FMA  indicates
that the AP/FD  TCAS  mode is available,
and armed.
If a  TA  is generated:
The  PF  announces " TCAS  blue"
If the  A/THR  is off, the  PF  should request the  PM  to set it ON
The  PF  must not initiate an evasive maneuver, only on the basis of a  TA .
If the AP/FD  TCAS  mode does not immediately arm, the AP/FD  TCAS  mode is failed or the aircraft is not equipped
with the AP/FD  TCAS  mode. In that case,
the  PF  announces " TCAS,  I have control"
and the flight crew must be prepared to manually follow the  RA  orders, in the case of a subsequent  RA .
chapter "TCAS Procedure
without AP/FD TCAS" .
RA
If a  RA  is generated:
The flight crew must always
follow the  TCAS
RA  orders in the correct direction,
even:
If the  TCAS
RA  orders are in contradiction with the  ATC  instructions
At the maximum
ceiling altitude with "CLIMB, CLIMB" or "INCREASE CLIMB,
INCREASE CLIMB"  TCAS
RA  orders
If it results
in crossing the altitude of the intruder.
If the flight crew
does not follow a  RA , the flight crew should be aware that
the intruder may be  TCAS  equipped and may be maneuvering
toward the aircraft in response to a coordinated  RA . This
could compromize safe separation.
AP/FD TCAS Mode engagement
If an  RA  is triggered, the
AP/FD  TCAS  mode automatically, and immediately,
engages.
The  PF  announces the AP/FD  TCAS  mode
engagement, like any other  FMA  changes.
If the  FD s are disengaged,
they automatically engage. The  FD  pitch bar does not flash,
and the triple click aural alert does not sound, in order to avoid
to disturb the  PF  during the evasive maneuver.  If the  A/THR  is disconnected,
it automatically becomes armed or active.  If  AP s and  FD s
are OFF when the  RA  is triggered,  HDG  automatically engages.
TCAS Procedure with AP/FD TCAS
If an  RA  is triggered:
If the  AP  is engaged, the  PF  should keep it ON.  The  AP  guides
the aircraft in accordance with the  RA  orders
If the  AP  is not
engaged:
The  PF  smoothly and firmly flies the  FD  pitch bar  The  FD  orders
guide the aircraft in accordance with the  RA  orders
The  PF  can ask the  PM  to engage the  AP .
The  PM  monitors the evasive maneuver.  PM  does not try to see
the reported traffic.
The flight crew checks
that the guidance of AP/FD  TCAS  mode leads the vertical speed out of
the red area of the vertical speed scale, and in the green area if
any.
If for any reason
during an  RA , the aircraft vertical speed does not reach
the green area of the vertical speed scale, the  PF  should
disconnect the  AP , and override the  FD  orders,
in order to lead the aircraft vertical speed out of the red area of
the vertical speed scale.
If necessary, the  PF  must use the full speed range between Vαmax and  VMAX .
The  PM  notifies the  ATC .
When clear of conflict:
The AP/FD  TCAS  mode automatically reverts
to  V/S , in order to capture the  FCU  selected
altitude. In some cases, the AP/FD  TCAS  mode may revert to an altitude acquire
mode, or an altitude hold mode
The  PM  notifies the  ATC
The  PF  engages an appropriate vertical mode, or adjusts the vertical speed
target, in accordance with  ATC  clearance.
The AP/FD  TCAS  mode is speed protected, i.e. it ensures that the aircraft
speed remains between  VLS  - 5  and  VMAX . Therefore, in the case the  RA  is triggered when the
aircraft is close to its performance limits, the  RA  vertical
speed target may not be reached with the AP/FD  TCAS  mode.
TCAS Procedure without AP/FD TCAS
If a  RA  is generated
and the AP/FD  TCAS  mode is not available:
The  PF  disconnects the  AP , and smoothly and firmly follows the  VSI  green sector within  5 , and requests that both  FD s be disconnected
Both  FD s must be
disconnected when  AP s are disconnected:
To ensure autothrust
speed mode
To avoid possible
confusion between  FD  bar orders, and  TCAS  aural,
and  VSI  orders.
The  PM  disconnects both  FD s, but will not try to see intruders
The  PF  will avoid excessive maneuvers, and keep the  V/S  outside
the red area of the  VSI  and within the green area. If necessary,
the  PF  must use the full speed range between Valpha max
and  VMAX
The  PM  must notify  ATC
The flight crew
should never maneuver in the opposite direction of the  RA , because
TCAS  maneuvers are coordinated.
When clear of conflict:
The flight crew
must resume normal navigation, in accordance with  ATC  clearance,
and using the  AP / FD , as required.
MANAGEMENT OF CLIMB RA DURING APPROACH IN CONF 3 OR FULL
If any CLIMB  RA  (For
more information  ) is
generated when the aircraft is in approach in  CONF  3 or
FULL:
The flight crew
perform a go-around and follow the  SRS  orders
The  AP  and  FD  can be kept engaged during the go-around
During the go-around,
the flight crew check that the vertical speed remains out of the red
area of the vertical speed scale, and take over if necessary. For
example, the flight crew should take over if the vertical speed gets
back to the red area of the vertical speed scale when the aircraft
intercepts the  FCU  selected altitude.
Takeoff Data
The takeoff conditions may change
before engine start due to one of the following reasons:
The final loadsheet
is different from the preliminary loadsheet, or
A change affects
the performance computation (e.g. runway condition degradation, intersection
or runway change, etc.).
In the
above-mentioned cases, the flight crew must update the takeoff data,
and they independently compute again the performance data. After this
new double computation, the  PF  enters the revised takeoff
data in the  FMS  PERF page, then the PM crosschecks the
takeoff performance data. To do so, the  PM  compares the  FMS  PERF page with the  EFB  takeoff performance application.
For more information on the content of a performance crosscheck,  .
Taxi Roll and Steering
Before taxi, check that the
amber  "NWS DISC"  ECAM  message is off, to ensure
that steering is fully available.
Thrust Use
The flight crew will need a little power
above idle thrust to move the aircraft.  Excessive thrust application can result in exhaust-blast damage or
Foreign Object Damage ( FOD ). Thrust should normally be
used symmetrically.
Tiller and Rudder Pedals Use
Pedals control  nosewheel steering
at low speed (±  6  with full pedal deflection). Therefore,
on straight taxiways and on shallow turns, the pilot can use the pedals
to steer the aircraft, keeping a hand on the tiller. In sharper turns,
the pilot must use the tiller.
Steering Technique
The Nosewheel steering is "by-wire"
with no mechanical connection between the tiller and the nosewheel.
The relationship between tiller deflection and nosewheel angle is
not linear and the tiller forces are light.
Tiller Deflection vs. Nosewheel Steering Angle
Therefore, the  PF  should move the tiller smoothly and
maintain the tiller's position. Any correction should be small
and smooth, and maintained for enough time to enable the pilot to
assess the outcome. Being over-active on the tiller will cause uncomfortable
oscillations.
On straight taxiways, the aircraft
is correctly aligned on the centerline, when the centerline is lined-up
between the  PFD  and  ND .
Proper Centerline Following
If both pilots act on the tiller or pedals, their inputs are added
until the maximum value of the steering angle (programmed within the
BSCU) is reached.  When the seating position is
correct, the cut-off angle is  20 , and the visual ground geometry
provides an obscured segment of  42  ( 12.5 ). During taxi, a turn must be initiated before an
obstacle approaches the obscured segment. This provides both wing
and tail clearance, with symmetric thrust and no differential braking.  Asymmetric thrust can be used to initiate a tight turn and to keep
the aircraft moving during the turn. If nosewheel lateral skidding
occurs while turning, reduce taxi speed or increase turn radius. Avoid
stopping the aircraft in a turn, because excessive thrust will be
required to start the aircraft moving again.
The flight crew should be aware that the main gear on the inside
of a turn will always cut the corner and track inside of the nosewheel
track. For this reason, the oversteering technique may be considered
especially for A321 where main gear is  20  behind
the pilot.
Oversteering Technique
When exiting a tight turn, the pilot should anticipate the steer
out. Additionally, the pilot should allow the aircraft to roll forward
for a short distance to minimize the stress on the main gears.  In the event that  one or more tires is/are deflated on the main
landing gear, the maximum permitted steering angle will be limited
by the aircraft speed. Therefore, with one tire deflated, the aircraft
speed is limited to  7  and nosewheel steering can be used.
With two tires deflated, the aircraft speed is limited to  3  and nosewheel steering angle should be limited to  30 .  For turns of  90  or more, the aircraft speed should be less than  10 .
Packs
If the takeoff has to be achieved
without air bleed fed from the engines for performance reasons, but
air conditioning desired, the  APU  bleed may be used with
packs ON, thus maintaining engine performance level and passenger
comfort. In case of  APU  auto shut down during takeoff,
the engine thrust is frozen till the thrust is manually reduced. The
packs revert to engine bleed which causes an increase of  EGT  to keep  N1 /EPR.  If the takeoff is performed
with one pack unserviceable, the procedure states to set the failed
pack to OFF. The takeoff may be performed with the other pack ON (if
performances permit) with  TOGA  or  FLEX  thrust,
the pack being supplied by the onside bleed. In this asymmetric bleed
configuration, the  N1  takeoff value is limited to the value
corresponding to the bleed ON configuration and takeoff performance
must be computed accordingly.
Small Altitude Changes
The use of low values of  V/S , e.g. less than  1000 , may be appropriate for
small altitude changes as it makes the guidance smoother and needs
less thrust variation.
Exterior Inspection
When icing
conditions on ground are encountered, and/or when ice accretion is
suspected, the Captain should determine, on the basis of the exterior
inspection, if the aircraft requires ground deicing/anti-icing treatment.
This visual inspection must take into account all vital parts of the
aircraft, and must be performed from locations that offer a clear
view of these parts.
Aircraft Deicing/Anti-Icing on Ground
De-Icing/Anti-Icing Fluid
Deicing/anti-icing fluids must
be able to remove ice and to prevent its accumulation on aircraft
surfaces until the beginning of the takeoff. In addition, the fluids
must flow off the surfaces of the aircraft during takeoff, in order
not to degrade takeoff performance.  Several types of fluids can be used. These fluids have different
characteristics:
type 1
type 2, 3, 4
Low viscosity
High viscosity
Limited hold-over
time
Longer hold-over time
Used mainly for de-icing
Used for de-icing
and anti-icing
The holdover time starts from
the beginning of the application of the fluid, and depends on the
type of fluid, and on the nature and severity of precipitation. The
flight crew should refer to applicable tables as guidelines. These
tables must be used in conjunction with the pre-takeoff check.
Depending upon the severity
of the weather, de-icing/anti-icing procedure must be applied either:
In one step,
via the single application of heated and diluted deicing/anti-icing
fluid: This procedure provides a short holdover time, and should be
used in low moisture conditions only. The holdover time starts from
the beginning of the application of the fluid.
In two steps,
by first applying the heated deicing fluid, then by applying a protective
anti-icing fluid: These two sprays must be applied consecutively.
The holdover time starts from the beginning of the application of
the second fluid.
Procedures
.
Taxi-Out
On contaminated taxiways, the taxi speed
should be limited to  10 , and any action that could distract
the flight crew during taxiing should be delayed until the aircraft
is stopped.
The following factors should
be taken into account:
At speeds below  20 : Antiskid deactivates.
Engine anti-ice
increases ground idle thrust.
To minimize
the risk of skidding during turns: Avoid large tiller inputs.
On slippery
taxiways: It may be more effective to use differential braking and/or
thrust, instead of nosewheel steering.
On slush-covered,
or snow-covered, taxiways: Flap selection should be delayed until
reaching the holding point, in order to avoid contaminating the flap/slat
actuation mechanism.
When reaching
the holding point: The Taxi checklist must be performed.
The flight crew
must maintain the aircraft at an appropriate distance from the aircraft
in front.
In icing conditions:
When holding on ground for extended periods of time, or if engine
vibration occurs, thrust should be increased periodically, and immediately
before takeoff, to shed any ice from the fan blades.
For more details about
this procedure,  .
Takeoff
Takeoff Performances
The use of  FLEX  thrust for
takeoff on contaminated runways is prohibited. However,  derated takeoff  thrust may be used, as required, in
order to optimize aircraft performance. When available, a  derated takeoff  thrust results in lower minimum control
speeds and, therefore, in a lower  V1 . A reduction in the
minimum control speeds can sometimes enhance takeoff performance.  If anti-ice is used, the flight crew
must apply the applicable performance penalty.  Slush, standing water, or deep snow reduces
the aircraft takeoff performance because of increased rolling resistance
and the reduction in tire-to-ground friction. A higher flap setting
increases the runway limited takeoff weight, but reduces second the
segment limited takeoff weight.
Takeoff Roll
Before the aircraft lines up
on the runway for takeoff, the flight crew must ensure that the airframe
has no ice or snow.  Then,
before applying thrust, the Captain should ensure that the nosewheel
is straight. If there is a tendency to deviate from the runway centerline,
this tendency must be neutralized immediately, via rudder pedal steering,
not via the tiller.  On contaminated runways, the
flight crew should ensure that engine thrust advances symmetrically
to help minimize potential problems with directional control.  The flight crew should keep
in mind that a  RTO  is a potentially hazardous manoeuvre
on contaminated runways.  If a  RTO  must be performed, the flight crew should maintain directional
control with the rudder and small inputs to the nose wheel. If necessary,
the flight crew should use differential braking in order to realign
with the runway centerline, when stopping distance permits.
In Flight
Climb/Descent
Whenever icing conditions are
encountered or expected, the engine anti-ice should be turned on.
Although the  TAT  before entering clouds may not require
engine anti-ice, flight crews should be aware that the  TAT  often decreases significantly, when entering clouds.  If the recommended anti-ice procedures
are not performed, engine stall, over-temperature, or engine damage
may occur.
Wing anti-ice should be turned on, if either severe ice accretion
is expected, or if there is any indication of icing on the airframe.
Holding
If holding is performed in icing
conditions, the flight crew should maintain clean configuration. This
is because prolonged flight in icing conditions with the slats extended
should be avoided.
Approach
Ice Accretion
If significant ice accretion develops
on parts of the wing, the aircraft speed must be increased ( ).
Barometer Indications
In cold weather, the atmosphere differs
from the  ISA  conditions. The parameters that the  ADIRS  computes are barometric and  ISA -referenced.  When the
atmosphere differs from the  ISA  conditions, the altitude
and  FPA  computed by the  ADIRS , and the associated
indications on  PFD  (altitude,  VDEV , etc.) are
not accurate.
The  ADIRS
computes the  FPA  from inertial data and barometric altitude.
When the temperature is lower
than  ISA :
The true altitude
of the aircraft is lower than the altitude that the  ADIRS  computes
The  FPA  that the aircraft actually flies, is less steep than the  FPA  that the  ADIRS  computes.
If appropriate, the flight crew
should therefore apply corrections on the altitudes and on the  FPA  (in vertical selected  FPA  mode), and they should
be vigilant on the parameters that are displayed.
Altitude Correction
The flight crew should consider
to correct the target altitudes, by adding the values that are indicated
in the table below:
Corrections to be
Added (ft)
Airport Temperature
(°C)
Height (ft)
-10
-20
-30
500
50
70
100
1000
100
140
190
2000
200
280
380
3000
290
420
570
4000
390
570
760
5000
490
710
950
These values are calculated for an aerodrome at sea level, and are
therefore conservative when applied at a higher altitude aerodrome.
For aerodromes at sea level, these corrections corresponds approximately
to 4 x Delta  ISA  x Height (ft)/1000.  The correction depends on the airport temperature, and on the height
above the airport. This correction has to be added to the indicated
altitude.  Along the Approach and Missed
Approach, the flight crew should consider to apply the altitude corrections
on the relevant minimum altitudes (all including  FAF , Step-down
altitudes, minima), and on the altitude for the altitude/distance
check.  For Non
Precision Approach in vertical managed mode, refer to the Approach
guidance management section.
FPA Correction
When the temperature is lower
than  ISA , the  FPA  that the aircraft actually
flies is less steep than the  FPA  that the  ADIRS  ( ISA  referenced) computes.  In vertical selected mode  FPA , to correct the  FPA  for this  ISA  deviation effect, the flight crew should
select on the  FCU  a  FPA  slightly different from
the  FPA  that the aircraft needs to fly.  In any case, the check "altitude (corrected in temperature)
versus distance" remains the reference.
Impact on the indications
The barometric indications on  PFD , namely the altitude and the  VDEV  are not corrected
in temperature and are therefore not accurate.
Example
Airport outside temperature  -20  ; Delta  ISA  =  -35 .  Approach:  FAF  at  3000  ; Final descent
slope  3 .
Landing
The flight crew should avoid
landing on slippery runways, particularly if the antiskid is inoperative.
However, if it is not possible to avoid such landings, the following
factors (linked to operations on contaminated runways) should be considered:
Braking action
Directional
control.
Braking Action
The presence of fluid contaminants on
the runway has an adverse effect on braking performance, because it
reduces the friction between the tires and the surface of the runway.
It also creates a layer of fluid between the tires and the runway
surface, and reduces the contact area. The landing distances provide
a good assessment of the real landing distances for specific levels
of contamination.  After a brief flare a firm touchdown
should be made, and  REV
MAX  should be selected
as soon as the main landing gear is on ground. Using reversers on
a runway that is contaminated with dry snow may reduce visibility,
particularly at low speeds. In such cases, reverse thrust should be
reduced to idle, if applicable.  If necessary,  REV
MAX  can be used until the aircraft is fully stopped.  The use of  MED  autobrake mode
is recommended, when landing on an evenly contaminated runway. It
is possible that the  DECEL  light on the  AUTO
BRK  panel will not come on, as the predetermined deceleration
may not be achieved. This does not mean that the autobrake is not
working.  In the case of uneven contamination on
a wet or contaminated runway, the autobrake may laterally destabilize
the aircraft. If this occurs, consider deselecting the autobrake.
Typical Landing Distance Factors Versus Runway Condition
Directional Control
During rollout, the sidestick
must be centered. This prevents asymmetric wheel loading, that results
in asymmetric braking and increases the weathercock tendency of the
aircraft.  The flight crew should maintain directional
control with the rudder as long as possible.  When required, differential
braking must be applied by completely releasing the pedal on the side
that is opposite to the expected direction of the turn.  This is because,
on a slippery runway, the same braking effect may be produced by a
full or half-deflection of the pedal.
Landing on a contaminated runway
in crosswind requires careful consideration. In such a case, directional
control problems are caused by two different factors:
If the aircraft
touches down with some crab and the reverse thrust is selected, the
side force component of reverse adds to the crosswind component and
causes the aircraft to drift to the downwind side of the runway.
As the braking
efficiency increases, the cornering force of the main wheels decreases.
This adds to any problems there may be with directional control.
If there is a problem with directional
control:
Reverse thrust
should be set to idle, in order to reduce the reverse thrust side-force
component.
The brakes should
be released, in order to increase the cornering force.
The pilot should
return to the runway centerline, reselect reverse thrust, and resume
braking ( ).
Taxi-in
During taxi-in, after landing,
the flaps/slats should not be retracted. This is because retraction
could cause damage, by crushing any ice that is in the slots of the
slats. When the aircraft arrives at the gate, and the engines are
stopped, a visual inspection should be performed to check that the
slats/flaps areas are free of contamination. They may then be retracted,
with the electric pumps.  At the end of the flight at
parking, in extreme cold conditions, cold soak protection is requested
when a longer stop over is expected.
Operational Recommendations
GENERAL GUIDELINES
Predictive windshear  warning (“WINDSHEAR AHEAD"
and "GO AROUND WINDSHEAR AHEAD" aural alerts, associated
with the  W/S AHEAD  that appears
on the  PFD s), reactive windshear warning ("WINDSHEAR
WINDSHEAR WINDSHEAR" aural alert, associated with the  WINDSHEAR  that appears on the  PFD s) and windshear detected by the flight crew, request immediate
actions.
The following recommendations
apply for takeoff after  V1  and when airborne (including
approach and go around phases):
The flight crew
must set  TOGA  thrust and should follow  SRS  orders
(if necessary pull the sidestick fully back).  If the  FD  bars are not displayed, the flight crew should move toward an initial
pitch attitude of  17.5 . Then, if necessary, to prevent
a loss in altitude, increase the pitch attitude.
If the  AP  is engaged, the flight crew should keep it engaged. The  AP  disengages if the angle of attack value goes above αPROT
The flight crew
should monitor the flight path, the speed and the speed trend.
Suspected windshear
(upon  ATC  or traffic notification or flight crew observation)
and  predictive windshear  caution (“MONITOR
RADAR DISPLAY" aural alert, associated with  W/S AHEAD  that appears on the  PFD s) request anticipation of the flight crew to be prepared for a possible
windshear.
When a  predictive
windshear  aural alert (“WINDSHEAR AHEAD" or "GO
AROUND WINDSHEAR AHEAD") is triggered, the flight crew must carefully
check that there is no hazard. If this is the case, the flight crew
can disregard the alert, as long as both the following apply:
There are no
other signs of possible windshear conditions
The reactive
windshear system is operational.
Known cases
of spurious  predictive windshear  alerts
were reported at some airports either during takeoff or landing, due
to the specific obstacle environment.  However, the flight
crew must always rely on all reactive windshear (i.e.  WINDSHEAR ) alerts.
TAKEOFF
SUSPECTED WINDSHEAR OR  Predictive Windshear
The Predictive Windshear Function detected
a windshear.  Predictive windshear alerts
are inhibited when the aircraft speed is above  100  and up to  50 .  If a predictive
windshear alert is triggered on the runway before takeoff, or in case
of suspected windshear, the flight crew must delay takeoff until conditions
are better. In order to evaluate takeoff conditions, the flight crew
should apply both of the following:
Use their observations
and experience
Check the weather
conditions.
In order to select the preferred
runway, the flight crew should take into consideration the location
of expected windshear.  If a predictive windshear warning
is triggered during the takeoff roll, the Captain must reject takeoff.  If a predictive windshear caution is triggered during the takeoff
roll, it is the decision of the Captain according to the Captain's
situation assessment to either:
Continue with
takeoff considering  TOGA , or
Reject takeoff.
If a predictive windshear alert
is triggered during initial climb, the flight crew must:
Set  TOGA
Closely monitor
the speed and the speed trend
Ensure that
the flight path does not include areas with suspected windshears
Change the aircraft
configuration, provided that the aircraft does not enter windshear.
Reactive Windshear or Windshear Detected by Flight Crew OBSERVATION
The Reactive Windshear Function
detected a windshear.  During the takeoff roll, "WINDSHEAR
WINDSHEAR WINDSHEAR" alert is inhibited.  Windshear recognition is based on the flight crew observation.  If the windshear occurs before  V1 , with significant speed
and speed trend variations, the Captain must initiate a rejected takeoff.  If the windshear occurs after  V1 , the flight crew must
select  TOGA . The flight crew must pay attention to the
following:
The flight crew
should not change the configuration, until the aircraft is out of
the windshear, because operating the landing gear doors causes additional
drag
The  PF  must fly  SRS  pitch orders rapidly and smoothly, but not
aggressively, and must consider pulling full backstick, if necessary,
to minimize height loss
The  PM  should call out the wind variations from the  ND  and  V/S  and, when clear of the windshear, report the encounter
to the  ATC .
APPROACH
SUSPECTED WINDSHEAR OR  Predictive Windshear
The Predictive Windshear Function detected
a windshear.  If "MONITOR
RADAR DISPLAY" or the visual alert appears, or in case of suspected
windshear, the flight crew should either delay the approach or divert
to another airport. However, if the flight crew decides to continue
the approach, they should:
Assess the weather
severity with the radar display
Consider the
most appropriate runway
Select FLAPS
3 for landing, in order to optimize the climb gradient capability
in the case of a go-around
Use managed
speed, because it provides the  GS  mini function
In the case
of strong or gusty crosswind above  20 ,  VAPP  should be at least  VLS
+5 ; the  5  increment above  VLS  may be increased up to  15  at the discretion of the flight crew
In very difficult
weather conditions, the  A/THR  response time may not be
sufficient to manage the instantaneous loss of airspeed.
for the applicable technique
description.
In the
case of "GO AROUND, WINDSHEAR AHEAD" aural alert triggering,
the  PF  must set  TOGA  for a go-around. The flight
crew can change the aircraft configuration, provided that the windshear
is not entered. Full backstick should be applied, if required, to
follow the  SRS , or to minimize the loss of height.
Reactive Windshear or Windshear Detected by Flight Crew OBSERVATION
The Reactive Windshear Function
detected a windshear.  In the case of a windshear,
the  PF  must set  TOGA  for a go-around.
The flight crew must pay attention to the following:
The flight crew
should not change the configuration, until the aircraft is out of
the windshear, because operating the landing gear doors causes additional
drag
The  PF  must fly  SRS  pitch orders rapidly and smoothly, but not
aggressively, and must consider pulling full backstick, if necessary,
to minimize height loss
The  PM  should call out the wind variations from the  ND  and  V/S  and, when clear of the windshear, report the encounter
to the  ATC .
TAKEOFF
For takeoff in high turbulence,
the flight crew must wait for the target speed  +20  (limited to  VFE -5) before retracting the slats/flaps
(e.g. the flight crew must wait for  F + 20  before setting Flaps 1).
IN FLIGHT
Use of radar
Areas of known turbulence, associated
with CBs, must be avoided. Good management of the radar tilt is essential,
in order to accurately assess and evaluate the vertical development
of CBs. Usually, the gain should be left in  AUTO . However,
selective use of manual gain may help to assess the general weather
conditions.  Manual gain is particularly useful, when operating in
heavy rain, if the radar picture is saturated. In this case, reduced
gain will help the flight crew to identify the areas of heaviest rainfall,
that are usually associated with active CB cells. After using manual
gain, it should be reset to  AUTO , in order to recover optimum
radar sensitivity. A weak echo should not be a reason for the flight
crew to underestimate a CB, because only the wet parts of the CB are
detected. The decision to avoid a CB must be taken as early as possible,
and lateral avoidance should, ideally, be at  20  upwind.
Use of  AP  and  A/THR
In cruise
If moderate
turbulence is encountered, the flight crew should set the  AP  and  A/THR  to ON.
If severe turbulence
is encountered :  severe
turbulence.
In approach  The flight crew should
use  AP  and  A/THR  for approaches as it reduces
the workload. If the  A/THR  performance is unsatisfactory,
the  PF  should disconnect it and control the thrust manually.  Use of managed speed
is recommended in order to benefit from GS mini function :
speed in approach phase.
if the aircraft is flown manually,
the flight crew should be aware of the fact that flight control laws
are designed to cope with turbulence. Therefore, they should avoid
the temptation to fight turbulence, and should not over-control the
sidestick.
Thrust and Air Speed
Set the thrust to give the recommended
speed. This thrust setting aims to obtain, in stabilized conditions,
the speed for turbulence penetration.
Only change thrust in case of an extreme variation in airspeed, and
do not chase your Mach or airspeed.
A transient increase is preferable to a loss of speed, that decreases
buffet margins and is difficult to recover.
Altitude
If the flight crew flies the
aircraft manually:
The flight crew
may expect large variations in altitude, but should not chase altitude
The flight crew
should consider descending to or below  OPT
FL , in order to increase the margin to buffet.
Considerations on CLEAR AIR TURBULENCE ( CAT )
CAT  can be expected by referring
to weather charts and pilot reports. However, the radar cannot detect  CAT , because it is "dry turbulence".  If  CAT  is encountered,
the flight crew may consider avoiding it vertically, keeping in mind
that the buffet margin reduces as the altitude increases.
Miscellaneous
The flight crew
must set the harness to on, check that the seat belts signs are on
and use all white lights in thunderstorms.
Turbulence speeds
are indicated in the QRH.
Introduction
The Abnormal and Emergency Procedures
chapter highlights techniques that will be used in some abnormal and
emergency operations. Some of the procedures discussed in this chapter
are the result of double or triple failures. Whilst it is very unlikely
that any of these failures will be encountered, it is useful to have
a background understanding of the effect that they have on the handling
and management of the aircraft. In all cases, the  ECAM / QRH  should be handled as described in  FCTM  ( ).
Engine Failure - General
An engine flameout can be due
to many reasons, for example:
Fuel starvation
Encounter with
volcanic ash, sand or dust clouds
Heavy rain,
or hail, or icing
Bird strike
Engine stall
Engine control
system malfunction.
An engine flameout may trigger
an  ECAM  alert.  The flight crew can detect an engine
flameout without damage by a rapid decrease of  N1  or  EPR ,  N2  or  N3 ,  EGT  or  FF .
The flight crew can suspect
engine damage, if the flight crew observes two or more of the following
symptoms:
Rapid increase
of the  EGT  above the red line
Significant
mismatch of the rotor speeds, or absence of rotation
Significant
increase in aircraft vibrations, or buffeting, or both vibrations
and buffeting
Abnormal engine
oil pressure, or temperature
Hydraulic system
loss
Repeated, or
not controllable engine stalls.
General
General
The flight crew must not intentionally
exceed  VMO / MMO  ( 350 / 0.82 ) during the flight. However, during normal operations,
the aircraft may temporarily exceed  VMO / MMO  due
to wind gradients.
The aircraft
is designed to fly up to the maximum structural speed at which the
aircraft structure will not be damaged. However, in the case of overspeed,
the aircraft may encounter vertical load factors that may exceed the
aircraft limits. In this case, exceeding  VMO / MMO  requires maintenance inspection.
Overspeed Prevention
OVERSPEED PREVENTION
Overspeed Prevention Technique
If the aircraft encounters significant speed variations close to  VMO / MMO  during flight, the following operating techniques
apply.  It is recommended to keep the  AP  and  A/THR  engaged. This enables to keep the intended
flight path while thrust reduces to idle, if necessary.  The flight crew selects a lower target speed in order to increase
the margin to  VMO / MMO . However, the flight crew
should not reduce the target speed below Green Dot, which is the minimum
recommended speed during the flight.  After the selection of the lower target speed, the flight crew monitors
the speed trend arrow on the  PFD . If the aircraft continues
to accelerate, and if the speed trend arrow approaches or exceeds  VMO / MMO , the flight crew uses the appropriate position
of speed brakes depending on the rate of acceleration. The length
of the speed trend arrow is a good indication of the rate of acceleration.
For more information,  .
The use of speed
brakes is an efficient deceleration mean, that is certified for the
whole flight envelope. However, the use of speed brakes results in
a reduction of the speed envelope. The use of speed brakes increases  VLS  and reduces the buffet margin at high altitude.
The use of speed
brakes results in a pitch up effect, but the  AP  and the
normal law compensate for it.
For the
descent in  DES  mode and managed speed, the flight crew should enter descent wind
data that is as accurate as possible. This results in an optimized
managed speed and vertical profile. This action results in a speed
during descent which would be approximately the managed speed target.
For more information,  .
Reporting
REPORTING
The flight crew must report any type
of overspeed event (i.e. if the  OVERSPEED  warning is triggered) to the maintenance. This report results in
appropriate maintenance actions.
Link with Turbulence
LINK BETWEEN  VMO / MMO  AND TURBULENCE
The significant speed variations near  VMO / MMO  and above  VMO / MMO  may
be one of the first indications of possible severe turbulence.  For more information,  .
Factors Affecting RTO
Factors Affecting the Rejected Takeoff ( RTO )
Experience has shown that a
rejected takeoff can be hazardous, even if correct procedures are
followed.
Some factors that can detract
from a successful rejected takeoff are as follows:
Tire damage
Brakes worn
or not working correctly
Brakes not being
fully applied
Error in gross
weight determination
Incorrect performance
calculations
Incorrect runway
line-up technique
Initial brake
temperature
Delay in initiating
the stopping procedure
Runway friction
coefficient lower than expected.
Thorough pre-flight preparation
and a conscientious exterior inspection can eliminate the effect of
some of these factors.  During the taxi-out, the departure briefing
should be confirmed. Any change to the planned conditions requires
the crew to re-calculate the takeoff data. In this case, the crew
should not be pressured into accepting a takeoff clearance before
being fully ready. Similarly, the crew should not accept an intersection
takeoff until the takeoff performance has been checked.  The line-up technique is very
important. The pilot should use the over steer technique to minimize
field length loss and consequently, to maximize the acceleration-stop
distance available.
Decision Making
Decision Making
A rejected takeoff is a potentially
hazardous manoeuvre and the time for decision making is limited. It
is not possible to list all the factors that could lead to the decision
to reject the takeoff. However, in order to help the Captain to make
a decision, the  ECAM  inhibits the warnings that are not
essential from  80  to  1500  (or  2  after
lift-off, whichever occurs first). Therefore, any warning received
during this period must be considered as significant.
speed considerations
To assist in the decision making process, the takeoff is divided
into low and high speeds regimes, with  100  being chosen
as the dividing line. The speed of  100  is not critical
but was chosen in order to help the Captain make the decision and
to avoid unnecessary stops from high speed.
Below  100 :
The decision to reject the takeoff may be taken at the Captain's
discretion, depending on the circumstances.  The Captain should seriously consider discontinuing the takeoff,
if any  ECAM  warning/caution is activated.
Above  100 , and below  V1 :
Rejecting the takeoff
at these speeds is a more serious matter, particularly on slippery
runways. It could lead to a hazardous situation, if the speed is approaching  V1 . At these speeds, the Captain should be "go-minded"
and very few situations should lead to the decision to reject the
takeoff:
Fire warning,
or severe damage
Sudden loss
of engine thrust
Malfunctions
or conditions that give unambiguous indications that the aircraft
will not fly safely
If any  ECAM  alert is triggered.
Exceeding the  EGT  red line
or nose gear vibration should not result in the decision to reject
takeoff above  100 .  In case of tire failure between  V1  minus  20  and  V1 , unless debris
from the tires has caused serious engine anomalies, it is far better
to get airborne, reduce the fuel load, and land with a full runway
length available.  The  V1  call has precedence
over any other call.
Above  V1 :
Takeoff must be continued, because it
may not be possible to stop the aircraft on the remaining runway.
decision CalloutS
The decision to reject the takeoff and
the stop action is the responsibility of the Captain and must be made
prior to  V1  speed. It is therefore recommended that the
Captain keeps the hand on the thrust levers until the aircraft reaches
V1, whether the Captain is Pilot Flying (PF) or Pilot Monitoring (PM).
If a malfunction
occurs before  V1 , for which the Captain does not intend
to reject the takeoff, the Captain will announce the intention by
calling "GO".
If a decision
is made to reject the takeoff, the Captain calls "STOP".
This call both confirms the decision to reject the takeoff and also
states that the Captain now has control.  It is the only time that
hand-over of control is not accompanied by the phrase "I have
control".
RTO Technique
RTO Technique
If a  RTO  procedure is initiated,
the following task sharing will be applied:
(1)
The flight crew may use the full reverse until the aircraft is fully
stopped. But, if there is enough runway available at the end of the
deceleration, the flight crew should reduce reverse thrust when passing  70 .
(2)
Annunciation
of the deceleration means that the flight crew feels the deceleration,
and confirms it by the Vc trend on the  PFD . If the autobrake
is on, the  DECEL  light may come on when
the actual deceleration is 80 % of the selected rate. However, the  DECEL  light is not an indicator of the proper
autobrake operation and is not a criteria to confirm the deceleration.
For instance, the  DECEL  light might not
appear on a contaminated runway, with the autobrake working properly,
due to the effect of the antiskid.
If a rejected
takeoff is initiated and  A/BRK
MAX  decelerates
the aircraft, the captain will avoid pressing the pedals (which might
be a reflex action)
If the autobrake
is inoperative or if the takeoff is rejected prior to  72  (autobrake not active and no deployment of spoilers), the captain
simultaneously reduces thrust and applies maximum pressure on both
pedals. The aircraft will stop in the minimum distance, only if the
brake pedals are maintained fully pressed until the aircraft comes
to a stop.
If the brake
response does not seem appropriate for the runway condition, full
manual braking should be applied and maintained. If the flight crew
has any doubt, they must take over manually.
If normal braking
is inoperative, the flight crew should immediately apply the [MEM]  LOSS OF BRAKING  memory items ( ).
After a rejected takeoff, if the aircraft
stops using  A/BRK
MAX , before taxiing, the flight
crew must disarm the ground spoilers in order to release the brakes.  Do not
attempt to vacate the runway, until it is absolutely clear that an
evacuation is not necessary and that it is safe to do so.
RTO Flow Pattern
Definition of the Stall
Definition of the Stall
The stall is a condition in aerodynamics
where the Angle of Attack ( AOA ) increases beyond a point
such that the lift begins to decrease.
As per basic aerodynamic rules,
the lift coefficient ( CL ) increases linearly with the  AOA  up to a point where the airflow starts to separate from
the upper surface of the wing. At and beyond this point, the flight
crew may observe:
Buffeting, which
depends on the slats/flaps configuration and increases at high altitude
due to the high Mach number
Pitch up effect,
mainly for swept wings and aft  CG . This effect further
increases the  AOA .
Lift Coefficient versus Angle of Attack
If the  AOA  further increases up to a value called  AOA  stall , the lift coefficient will
reach a maximum value called C L MAX .  When the  AOA  is higher than  AOA  stall , the airflow separates from the wing
surface and the lift coefficient decreases. This is the stall.  The stall will always occur at the same  AOA  for
a given configuration, Mach number and altitude.
Influence of Slats and Flaps on Lift Coefficient versus Angle
of Attack
Slats and Flaps have a different impact on the Lift coefficient
obtained for a given  AOA . Both Slats and Flaps create an
increase in the maximum lift coefficient.
Influence of Speed Brakes and Icing on Lift Coefficient versus
Angle of Attack
On the contrary, speed brake extension and ice accretion
reduce the maximum lift coefficient. Flight control laws and stall
warning threshold take into account these possible degradations.
To summarize, loss of lift is
only dependant on  AOA . The  AOA  stall  depends on:
Aircraft configuration
(slats, flaps, speed brakes)
Mach and altitude
Wing contamination
Stall Recognition
Stall Recognition
The flight crew must apply the
stall recovery procedure as soon as they recognize any of the following
stall indications:
Stall warnings  Aural and visual stall
warnings are designed to sound and appear on  PFD  when  AOA  exceeds a given threshold, which depends on the aircraft
configuration. These warnings provide sufficient margin to alert the
flight crew in advance of the actual stall even with contaminated
wings.
Stall buffet  Buffet is recognized
by airframe vibrations that are caused by the non-stationary airflow
separation from the wing surface when approaching  AOA  stall .  When the Mach number
increases, both the  AOA  stall  and C L MAX  will decrease.  The stall warnings
are set close to  AOA  at which the buffet starts. For some
Mach numbers the buffet may appear just before the stall warnings.
Introduction
All approaches are divided into three
parts (i.e. initial, intermediate and final) where the flight crew
should perform associated configuration management and guidance management.  Techniques, which apply to specific
approach types are covered in the appropriate chapters.
Barometric Setting
Approach flown in FINAL  APP  or  FLS  requires a precise barometric setting. Wrong barometric
setting leads to an incorrect vertical profile and potential obstacle
clearance reduction.  When changing
from  STD  to  QNH / QFE , the flight crew
should pay attention to a barometric setting that significantly differs
from the one used for approach preparation. That could be the symptom
of a barometric setting error. In this case the flight crew should
consider the confirmation of the barometric setting from all available
sources.  During
final approach, if the radio altimeter value unexpectedly decreases
to a very low value, this could be the sign of a wrong barometric
setting.
Discontinued Approach
The discontinued approach is
an alternative technique to the GO AROUND procedure to interrupt an
approach when the aircraft is at or above the selected FCU altitude.  Contrary to the GO AROUND procedure, the discontinued approach technique
does not require the flight crew to set the thrust levers to TOGA
detent.  The flight crew should initiate
the discontinued approach technique with the callout: “CANCEL APPROACH”.
The first action of the flight crew is
to disengage  and  disarm any  AP / FD  approach mode, by pressing on the  APPR  or  LOC .
FCTM Content
The FCTM has 4 sections:
general information
This section provides information
on:
The  FCTM  purpose
The  FCTM  content
The abbreviations.
airbus operational philosophy
This section is divided
into four sub-sections:
Design Philosophy:
This sub-section describes the
Airbus design and utilization principles of:
The cockpit
The fly-by-wire
The procedures.
Tasksharing
rules and communication:  This sub-section describes
the general tasksharing and communication rules in normal and abnormal
operations.
Management of
Abnormal Operations:  This sub-section describes
how the flight crew should manage abnormal operations (e.g. Handling
of  ECAM  alerts,  QRH , ADVISORY)
Golden Rules
for Pilots:  This sub-section describes
the Airbus "GOLDEN RULES FOR PILOTS".
aircraft systems
This section provides supplementary information
and operating techniques on the use of specific systems (e.g. BIRD,  TCAS ).
procedures
This section provides in normal
and abnormal operations:
Best practices
(why to, how to, what if not done)
Maneuvers and
handling techniques.
This section is divided
into two sub-sections:
Normal Procedures
(including Supplementary Procedures)
Abnormal and
Emergency Procedures.
Abbreviations
A
Abbreviation
Term
A>B
A is greater than
B
A≥B
A is greater than
or equal to B
A<B
A is less than B
A≤B
A is less than or
equal to B
A/BRK
Autobrake
A/C
Aircraft
A/P
Autopilot
AP
Autopilot
APPSM
Approach Stabilization
Monitor
A/S
Airspeed
A/SKID
Anti-skid
A/THR
Auto Thrust
AA
Airworthiness Authorities
AB
Abort
ABCU
Alternate Braking
Control Unit
ABN
Abnormal
ABV
Above
AC
Alternating Current
ACARS
Aircraft Communication
Addressing and Reporting System
ACAS
Airborne Collision
Avoidance System
ACCEL
Acceleration
ACC
Active Clearance Control
ACCU
Accumulator
ACN
Aircraft Customer
Number
ACP
Audio Control Panel
ACSC
Air Conditioning System
Controller
ACT
Additional Center
Tank
ADF
Automatic Direction
Finder
ADIRS
Air Data Inertial
Reference System
ADIRU
Air Data Inertial
Reference Unit
ADM
Air Data Module
ADR
Air Data Reference
ADS-B
Automatic Dependent
Surveillance-Broadcast
ADV
Advisory
AEVC
Avionic Equipment
Ventilation Computer
AFM
Airplane Flight Manual
AFS
Auto Flight System
AGL
Above Ground Level
AIDS
Aircraft Integrated
Data System
AIL
Aileron
AIME
Autonomous Integrity
Monitoring Extrapolation
AIU
Audio Interface Unit
AIREP
Special Air Report
of Braking Action
ALT
Altitude
ALTN
Alternate
ALTSM
Altimeter Setting
Monitor
AMI
Airline Modifiable
Information
AMU
Audio Management Unit
ANT
Antenna
AOA
Angle of Attack
AOC
Airline Operational
Control
APP
Approach
APPR
Approach
APPU
Asymmetry Position
Pick-off Unit
APU
Auxiliary Power Unit
AR
Authorization Required
ARINC
Aeronautical Radio
Incorporated
ARN
Aircraft Registration
Number
ARP
Aerospace Recommended
Practice
ARPT
Airport
ASAP
As Soon As Possible
ASI
Air Speed Indicator
ASP
Audio Selector Panel
ATC
Air Traffic Control
ATM
Air Traffic Management
ATN
Aeronautical Telecommunications
Network
ATE
Automatic Test Equipment
ATIS
Automatic Terminal
Information Service
ATS
Air Traffic Service
ATSAW
Airborne Traffic Situational
Awareness
ATSU
Air Traffic Service
Unit
ATT
Attitude
AUTO
Automatic
AVNCS
Avionics
AWY
Airway
B
Abbreviation
Term
B/C
Back Course
BACF
Braking Action Computation
Function
BARO
Barometric
BAT
Battery
BCL
Battery Charge Limiter
BCDS
Bite Centralized Data
System
BCU
Backup Control Unit
BDDV
Brake Dual Distribution
Valve
BITE
Built-In Test Equipment
BIU
BITE Interface Unit
BFE
Buyer Furnished Equipment
BFO
Beat Frequency Oscillator
BMC
Bleed Monitoring Computer
BNR
Binary
BRG
Bearing
BRK
Brake
BRT
Bright
BSCU
Braking Steering Control
Unit
BTC
Bus Tie Contactor
BTL
Bottle
BUS
Busbar
C
Abbreviation
Term
C/B
Circuit Breaker
CB
Cumulonimbus
C/L
Checklist
CL
Checklist
CAB
Cabin
CAPT
Captain, Capture
CAS
Calibrated Airspeed
CAT
Category, Clear Air
Turbulence
CBMS
Circuit Breaker Monitoring
System
CCD
Cursor Control Device
CDL
Configuration Deviation
List
CDLS
Cockpit Door Locking
System
CDSS
Cockpit Door Surveillance
System
CDU
Control Display Unit
CF
Cost of Fuel
CFDIU
Centralized Fault
Display Interface Unit
CFDS
Centralized Fault
Display System
CG
Center of Gravity
CHAN
Channel
CHG
Change
CHK
Check
CI
Cost Index
CIDS
Cabin Intercommunication
Data System
CKPT
Cockpit
CLB
Climb
CLR
Clear
CLSD
Closed
CM1(2)
Crewmember 1 (left
seat) or 2 (right seat)
CM1
Crewmember 1 (left
seat)
CM2
Crewmember 2 (right
seat)
CMPTR
Computer
CMS
Constant Mach Segment
CMS
Centralized Maintenance
System
CNSU
Cabin Network Server
Unit
CO
Company
CO RTE
Company Route
COND
Conditioning
CONF
Configuration
CONT
Continuous
CPC
Cabin Pressure Controller
CPCU
Cabin Pressure Controller
Unit
CPDLC
Controller-Pilot Data
Link Communication
CRC
Continuous Repetitive
Chime
CRG
Cargo
CRS
Course
CRT
Cathode Ray Tube
CRZ
Cruise
CSAS
Conditioned Service
Air System
CSCU
Cargo Smoke Control
Unit
CSD
Constant Speed Drive
CSM/G
Constant Speed Motor/Generator
CSTR
Constraint
CT
Cost of Time
CTL
Control
CTL PNL
Control Panel
CTR
Center
CVR
Cockpit Voice Recorder
D
Abbreviation
Term
DA
Drift Angle
DAC
Digital to Analog
Converter
DAR
Digital AIDS Recorder
DC
Direct Current
DCDU
Datalink Control and
Display Unit
DCL
Digital Cabin Logbook
DDRMI
Digital Distance and
Radio Magnetic Indicator
DECEL
Deceleration
DES
Descent
DEST
Destination
DET
Detection, Detector
DFA
Delayed Flap Approach
DFDR
Digital Flight Data
Recorder
DH
Decision Height
DIR
Direction
DIR TO
Direct To
DISC
Disconnect
DISCH
Discharge
DIST
Distance
DITS
Digital Information
Transfer System
DIV
Diverter
DMC
Display Management
Computer
DME
Distance Measuring
Equipment
DMU
Data Management Unit
(Aids)
DN
Down
DSDL
Dedicated Serial Data
Link
DTG
Distance To Go
DTO
Derated Takeoff
DU
Display Unit / Documentary
Unit
E
Abbreviation
Term
EWD
Engine/Warning Display
ECAM
Electronic Centralized
Aircraft Monitoring
ECAS
Emergency Cockpit
Alerting System
ECB
Electronic Control
Box (APU)
ECM
Engine Condition Monitoring
ECON
Economic
ECP
ECAM Control Panel
ECS
Environmental Control
System
ECU
Engine Control Unit
EDP
Engine-Driven Pump
EEC
Electronic Engine
Computer
EFB
Electronic Flight
Bag
EFCS
Electronic Flight
Control System
EFIS
Electronic Flight
Instruments System
EFOB
Estimated Fuel On
Board
EGPWS
Enhanced Ground Proximity
Warning System
EGT
Exhaust Gas Temperature
EIS
Electronic Instruments
System
EIU
Engine Interface Unit
ELAC
Elevator Aileron Computer
ELEC
Electrics
ELT
Emergency Locator
Transmitter
ELEV
Elevator
ELV
Elevation
EMER
Emergency
EMER GEN
Emergency Generator
ENG
Engine
EO
Engine-Out
EOSID
Engine-Out Standard
Instrument Departure
EPE
Estimated Position
Error (equal to EPU)
EPR
Engine Pressure Ratio
EPU
Emergency Power Unit
EPU
Estimated Position
Uncertainty (equal to EPE)
EROPS
Extended Range Operation
ESF
Estimated Surface
Friction
ESS
Essential
EST
Estimated
ETA
Estimated Time of
Arrival
ETE
Estimated Time Enroute
ETOPS
Extended Twin Operations
ETP
Equal Time Point
EVMU
Engine Vibration Monitoring
Unit
E/WD
Engine/Warning Display
EXP
Expedite
EXT PWR
External Power
EXTN
Extension
F
Abbreviation
Term
F
Fuel
FAA
Federal Aviation Administration
FAP
Forward Attendant
Panel
F/C
Flight Crew
F/O
First Officer
FO
First Officer
FAC
Flight Augmentation
Computer
FADEC
Full Authority Digital
Engine Control System
FAF
Final Approach Fix
FAP
Forward Attendant
Panel
FAR
Federal Aviation Regulations
FAV
Fan Air Valve
FCDC
Flight Control Data
Concentrator
FCMS
Fuel Control and Monitoring
System
FCOM
Flight Crew Operating
Manual
FCU
Flight Control Unit
FD
Flight Director
FDIMU
Flight Data Interface
and Management Unit
FDIU
Flight Data Interface
Unit
FDP
Final Descent Point
FDU
Fire Detection Unit
FEP
Final End Point
FF
Fuel Flow
FG
Flight Guidance
FGC
Flight Guidance Computer
F-G/S
FLS Glide Slope
FIDS
Fault Isolation and
Detection System
FL
Flight Level
FLD
Factored Landing
Distance
FLHV
Fuel Lower Heating
Value
F-LOC
FLS Localizer
FLP
Flap
FLS
FMS Landing System
FLT
Flight
F/CTL
Flight Control
FLT CTL
Flight Control
FLXTO
Flexible Takeoff
FM
Flight Management
FMA
Flight Mode Annunciator
FMGC
Flight Management
and Guidance Computer
FMGS
Flight Management
and Guidance System
FMS
Flight Management
System
FNL
Final
FOB
Fuel On Board
FOM
Figure Of Merit
FPA
Flight Path Angle
F-PLN
Flight Plan
FPD
Flight Path Director
FPPU
Feedback Position
Pick-off Unit
FPV
Flight Path Vector
FQI
Fuel Quantity Indication
FQU
Fuel Quantity Unit
FREQ
Frequency
FRT
Front
FRV
Fuel Return Valve
FU
Fuel Used
FWC
Flight Warning Computer
FWD
Forward
FWS
Flight Warning System
G
Abbreviation
Term
G/S
Glideslope
GA
Go-Around
GAPCU
Ground and Auxiliary
Power Control Unit
GBAS
Ground Based Augmentation
System
GCU
Generator Control
Unit
GDU
Group of Documentary
Unit
GEN
Generator
GES
Ground Earth Station
GLC
Generator Line Contactor
GLS
GBAS Landing System,
GNSS Landing System
GMT
Greenwich Mean Time
GND
Ground
GND TEMP
Ground Temperature
GNSS
Global Navigation
Satellite System
GPCU
Ground Power Control
Unit
GPIRS
Global Positioning
and Inertial Reference System
GPS
Global Positioning
System
GPWS
Ground Proximity Warning
System
GRF
Global Reporting
Format for runway surface conditions
GRND
Ground
GRP
Geographic Reference
Point
GRVTY
Gravity
GS
Ground Speed
GW
Gross Weight
H
Abbreviation
Term
HC
Harness Connector
HCU
Hydraulic Control
Unit
HDG
Heading
HDG/S
Heading Selected
HDL
Handle
HF
High Frequency
HI
High
HLD
Hold
HM
Holding Pattern with
a Manual Termination
HMU
Hydrau-Mechanical
Unit
HMS
Heat Management System
HP
High Pressure
HPA
Hectopascal
HPV
High Pressure Valve
HUD
Head Up Display
HYD
Hydraulic
I
Abbreviation
Term
I/O
Inputs/Outputs
I/P
Input or Intercept
Profile
IAF
Initial Approach
Fix
IAS
Indicated Airspeed
IATA
International Air
Transport Association
ICAO
International Civil
Aviation Organization
IDENT
Identification
IDG
Integrated Drive
Generator
IFE
In Flight Entertainment
IFR
Instrument Flight
Rules
IGGS
Inert Gas Generation
System
IGN
Ignition
ILS
Instrument Landing
System
IM
Inner Marker
IMM
Immediate
INB
Inbound
INBO
Inboard
INCREM
Increment
INIT
Initialization
INOP
Inoperative
INR
Inner
INST
Instrument
INTCP
Intercept
INV
Inverter
IP
Intermediate Pressure
IPC
Intermediate Pressure
Check valve
IPPU
Instrumentation Position
Pick-off Unit
IR
Inertial Reference
IRS
Inertial Reference
System
ISA
International Standard
Atmosphere
ISDU
Initial System Display
Unit
ISIS
Integrated Standby
Instrument System
ISOL
Isolation
ISPSS
In Seat Power Supply
System
J
Abbreviation
Term
K
Abbreviation
Term
L
Abbreviation
Term
L/G
Landing Gear
LAF
Load Alleviation
Function
LAT
Latitude
LAT REV
Lateral Revision
LAV
Lavatory
LCD
Liquid Crystal Display
LCN
Load Classification
Number
LD
Landing Distance
LDA
Landing Distance
Available
Localizer Directional
Aid
LDG
Landing
LDS
Laptop Docking Station
LED
Light Emiting Diode
LEDU
List of Effective
Documentary Units
LEOEB
List of Effective
Operations Engineering Bulletins
LESS
List of Effective
Section/Subsections
LF
Low Frequency
LGCIU
Landing Gear Control
Interface Unit
LGPIU
Landing Gear Position
Indicator Unit
LH
Left-Hand
LIM
Limitation
LIS
Localizer Inertial
Smoothing
LK
Lock
LL
Latitude/Longitude
LLS
Left-Line Select
key
LO
Low
LOC
Localizer
LONG
Longitude
LP
Low Pressure
LRRA
Low Range Radio Altimeter
LRU
Line Replaceable
Unit
LS
Loudspeaker
LSK
Line Select Key
LT
Light
LTS
Load and Trim Sheet
LVL
Level
LVL/CH
Level Change
LVR
Lever
LW
Landing Weight
M
Abbreviation
Term
MABH
Minimum Approach
Break-off Height
MAC
Mean Aerodynamic
Chord
MAG
Magnetic
MAG DEC
Magnetic Declination
MAG VAR
Magnetic Variation
MAINT
Maintenance
MAN
Manual
MAP
Missed Approach Point
MAX
Maximum
MAX CLB
Maximum Climb
MAX DES
Maximum Descent
MAX END
Maximum Endurance
MC
Master Caution
MCDU
Multipurpose Control
and Display Unit
MCT
Maximum Continuous
Thrust
MCU
Modular Concept Unit
MDA
Minimum Descent Altitude
MDDU
Multifunction Disk
Drive Unit
MDH
Minimum Descent Height
MECH
Mechanic
MEA
Minimum En Route
Altitude
MED
Medium
MEL
Minimum Equipment
List
METAR
Meteorological Aerodrome
Report
MFA
Memorized Fault Annunciator
MIN
Minimum
MKR
Marker
MLA
Maneuver Load Alleviation
MLS
Microwave Landing
System
MLW
Maximum Landing Weight
MM
Middle Marker
MMEL
Master Minimum Equipment
List
MMO
Maximum Operating
Mach
MMR
Multi Mode Receiver
MN
Mach number
MORA
Minimum Off Route
Altitude
MRIU
Maintenance and Recording
Interface Unit
MSA
Minimum Safe Altitude
MSG
Message
MSL
Mean Sea Level
MSU
Mode Selector Unit
MTBF
Mean Time Between
Failure
MTOW
Maximum Takeoff Weight
MZFW
Maximum Zero Fuel
Weight
N
Abbreviation
Term
N/A
Not Applicable
NA
Not Applicable
N1
Low Pressure Rotor
Speed (in %)
N2
High Pressure Rotor
Speed (in %)
NACA
National Advisory
Committee for Aeronautics
NADP
Noise Abatement Departure
Procedure
NAI
Engine Nacelle Anti-Ice
NAV
Navigation
NAVAID
Navigation Aid
NCD
Non Computed Data
ND
Navigation Display
NDB
Non Directional Beacon
NLG
Nose Landing Gear
NORM
Normal
NOTAM
Notice To Airmen
NW
Nosewheel
NWS
Nosewheel Steering
O
Abbreviation
Term
O/P
Output
OANS
On-board Airport
Navigation System
OAT
Outside Air Temperature
OBRM
On Board Replaceable
Module
OEB
Operations Engineering
Bulletin
OFF/R
Off Reset
OFST
Offset
OIS
Onboard Information
System
OIT
Onboard Information
Terminal
OM
Outer Marker
OP
Open
OPP
Opposite
OPS
Operations
OPT
Optimum
OUTB
Outbound
OUTR
Outer
OVBD
Overboard
OVHD
Overhead
OVHT
Overheat
OVRD
Override
OVSPD
Overspeed
OXY
Oxygen
P
Abbreviation
Term
P/N
Part Number
PN
Part Number
PA
Passenger Address
P-ALT
Profile Altitude
PAX
Passenger
PBE
Protective Breathing
Equipment
P-CLB
Profile Climb
PCU
Power Control Unit
P-DES
Profile Descent
PDB
Performance Data
Base
PDU
Pilot Display Unit
PERF
Performance
PES
Passenger Entertainment
System
PF
Pilot Flying
PFC
Porous Friction Course
PFD
Primary Flight Display
PHC
Probes Heat Computer
P-MACH
Profile Mach
PM
Pilot Monitoring
PNL
Panel
POB
Pressure Off Brake
POS
Position
PPOS
Present Position
PPU
Position Pick-off
Unit
PR
Pressure
PRED
Prediction
PRESS
Pressure, Pressurization
PROC
Procedure
PROC T
Procedure Turn
PROF
Profile
PROG
Progress
PROTEC
Protection
P-SPEED
Profile Speed
PSL
Product Structure
Level
PSU
Passenger Service
Unit
PT
Point
PTR
Printer
PTT
Push To Talk
PTU
Power Transfer Unit
(Hydraulic)
PVI
Paravisual Indicator
PWR
Power
PWS
Predictive Windshear
System
Q
Abbreviation
Term
QAR
Quick Access Recorder
QFE
Field Elevation Atmosphere
Pressure
QFU
Runway Heading
QNE
Sea Level Standard
Atmosphere Pressure (1013 hPa)
QNH
Sea Level Atmosphere
Pressure
QRH
Quick Reference Handbook
QT
Quart (US)
QTY
Quantity
R
Abbreviation
Term
R/I
Radio/Inertial
RA
Radio Altimeter /
Resolution Advisory
RACC
Rotor Active Clearance
Control
RAD
Radio
RAIM
Receiver Autonomous
Integrity Monitoring
RAT
Ram Air Turbine
RATC
Remote ATC Box
RCAM
Runway Condition
Assessment Matrix
RCDR
Recorder
RCL
Recall
RCVR
Receiver
REAC
Reactive
REC
Recommended
RED
Reduction
REG
Regulation
REL
Release
REV
Reverse
RLD
Required Landing
Distance
RH
Right-Hand
RLSK
Right Line Select
Key
RMI
Radio Magnetic Indicator
RMP
Radio Management
Panel
RNAV
Area Navigation
RNG
Range
RNP
Required Navigation
Performance
RNP APCH
Required Navigation
Performance Approach
RNP AR
Required Navigation
Performance Authorization Required
ROP
Runway Overrun Protection
ROPS
Runway Overrun Prevention
System
ROW
Runway Overrun Warning
RPCU
Residual Pressure
Control Unit
RPM
Revolution Per Minute
RPTG
Repeating
RQRD
Required
RSV
Reserves
RTE
Route
RTL
Rudder Travel Limit
RTO
Rejected Takeoff
RTOW
Regulatory Takeoff
Weight
RUD
Rudder
RVSM
Reduced Vertical
Separation Minimum
RWY
Runway
RWYCC
Runway Condition
Code
S
Abbreviation
Term
S
South
S/C
Step Climb
S/D
Step Descent / Shut
Down
S/F
Slats/Flaps
S/N
Serial Number
SN
Serial Number
SAAAR
Special Aircrew and
Aircraft Authorization Required
SAT
Static Air Temperature
SATCOM
Satellite Communication
SBAS
Satellite Based Augmentation
System
SC
Single Chime
SCP
Software Control
Panel
SD
System Display
SDAC
System Data Acquisition
Concentrator
SDCU
Smoke Detection Control
Unit
SDF
Simplified Directional
Facility
SEC
Spoiler Elevator
Computer
SEL
Selector
SFCC
Slat/Flap Control
Computer
SFE
Seller-Furnished
Equipment
SID
Standard Instrument
Departure
SIM
Simulation
SLS
SBAS Landing System
SLT
Slat
SOP
Standard Operating
Procedure
SPD
Speed
SPD LIM
Speed Limit
SPLR
Spoiler
SRS
Speed Reference System
STAR
Standard Terminal
Arrival Route
STAT
Static
STAT INV
Static Inverter
STBY
Standby
STD
Standard
STEER
Steering
STRG
Steering
STS
Status
SWTG
Switching
SYNC
Synchronize
SYS
System
T
Abbreviation
Term
T.O
Takeoff
T/O
Takeoff
TO
Takeoff
T/C
Top of Climb
T/D
Top of Descent
TA
Traffic Advisory
TAC
Taxiing Aid Camera
TACAN
Tactical Air Navigation
TACT
Tactical
TAF
Terminal Aerodrome
Forecast
TAS
True Air Speed
TAT
Total Air Temperature
TAU
Time to intercept
TAWS
Terrain Awareness
and Warning System
TBC
To Be Confirmed
TBD
To Be Determined
TCAS
Traffic Alert and
Collision Avoidance System
TDU
Temporary Documentary
Unit
TEMP
Temperature
TFTS
Terrestrial Flight
Telephon System
TGT
Target
THR
Thrust
THS
Trimmable Horizontal
Stabilizer
TK
Tank / Track Angle
TKE
Track Angle Error
TLA
Throttle Lever Angle
TLM
Taxiway Landing Monitor
TLU
Travel Limitation
Unit
TMR
Timer
TOGA
Takeoff - Go-Around
TOGW
Takeoff Gross Weight
TOW
Takeoff Weight
T-P
Turn Point
TPIS
Tire Pressure Indicating
System
TR
Transformer Rectifier
T-R
Transmitter-Receiver
TRANS
Transition
TRK
Track
TROPO
Tropopause
TRU
Transformer Rectifier
Unit
TRV
Travel
TSM
Trouble Shooting
Manual
TTG
Time to Go
TVMC
Minimum Control Speed
Temperature
TWY
Taxiway
U
Abbreviation
Term
UFD
Unit Fault Data
ULB
Underwater Locator
Beacon
UNLK
Unlock
UP
Up, Upper
UTC
Universal Coordinated
Time
V
Abbreviation
Term
V/S
Vertical Speed
V1
Decision Speed
V2
Takeoff Safety Speed
VAPP
Approach Speed
VBV
Variable Bypass Valve
VC
Calibrated airspeed
VDEV
Vertical Deviation
VEL
Velocity
VERT
Vertical
VERT REV
Vertical Revisor
VFE
Maximum Speed for
each Flap configuration
VFEN
VFE Next
VFTO
Final Takeoff Speed
VHF
Very High Frequency
VHV
Very High Voltage
VIB
Vibration
VIP
Vertical Intersection
Point
VLE
Maximum Landing Gear
Extended Speed
VLS
Lowest Selectable
Speed
VLV
Valve
VM
Maneuvering Speed
VMAX
Maximum Allowable
Speed
VMC
Visual Meteorological
Conditions
VMCA
Minimum Control Speed
in the Air
VMCG
Minimum Control Speed
on Ground
VMCL
Minimum Control Speed
at Landing
VMIN
Minimum Operating
Speed
VMO
Maximum Operating
Speed
VMU
Minimum Unstick Speed
VOR
VHF Omnidirectional
Range
VOR-D
VOR-DME
VR
Rotation Speed
VREF
Landing Reference
Speed
VSI
Vertical Speed Indicator
VSV
Variable Stator Vane
VU
Visual Unit
W
Abbreviation
Term
WAI
Wing Anti-Ice
WARN
Warning
WBBC
Weight and Balance
Backup Computer
WBC
Weight and Balance
Computer
WBS
Weight and Balance
System
WGD
Windshield Guidance
Display
WHC
Window Heat Computer
WNDW
Window
WPT
Waypoint
WSHLD
Windshield
WGT
Weight
WTB
Wing Tip Brake
WXR
Weather Radar
X
Abbreviation
Term
XBLD
Crossbleed
XCVR
Transceiver
XFR
Transfer
XMTR
Transmitter
XPDR
Transponder
XTK
Crosstrack Error
Y
Abbreviation
Term
Z
Abbreviation
Term
ZFCG
Zero Fuel Center
of Gravity
ZFW
Zero Fuel Weight
ZFWCG
Zero Fuel Weight
Center of Gravity field
Symbols
Abbreviation
Term
<
less than
>
more than
≤
less than or equal
to
≥
more than or equal
to
=
equal to
Introduction
A safe and efficient flight results from
an effective interaction between:
The Airbus cockpit
philosophy
The procedures
The pilots (human
mechanisms and behaviors).
Flying in Reconfiguration Laws
When the aircraft is in re-configuration
law, the flight crew should consider the following:
At high altitude,
descend to a lower altitude to increase the margin to buffet. Descending
by approximately  4000  below REC MAX ALT reduces significantly
the occurrence of stall warning in turbulence.
At high speed,
maneuver with care and use small control inputs. Depending on the
re-configuration law, the control laws in pitch, roll and yaw can
have different modes. For additional information,  .
ALTERNATE LAW
The handling characteristics
within the normal flight envelope are identical in pitch with normal
law.  Outside the normal flight envelope,
the  PF  must take appropriate preventive actions to avoid
losing control, and/or avoid high speed excursions. These actions
are the same as those that would be applied in any case of non protected
aircraft.
DIRECT LAW
The  PF  must be careful
when performing large thrust changes, or sudden speedbrake movements,
particularly if the center of gravity is aft. For example:
If the speedbrakes
are out, and the aircraft has been re-trimmed, the  PF  must
gently retract the speedbrakes, to give time to re-trim, and thereby
avoid a large nose-down trim change.
During a go-around,
applying TOGA thrust will induce a large pitch up moment. The  PF  must pay attention to this engine effect in order to avoid
excessive pitch up or a transient stall warning. The  PF  must apply nose-down trim accordingly.
MECHANICAL BACKUP
In such cases, the objective
is not to fly the aircraft accurately, but to maintain the aircraft
attitude safe and stabilized, in order to allow the restoration of
lost systems.  The pitch trim wheel is used
to control pitch.  Any action on the pitch trim wheel should be applied
smoothly, because the  THS  effect is significant due to
its large size.  The rudder provides lateral
control, and induces a significant roll with a slight delay. The  PF  should apply some rudder to turn, and wait for the aircraft
reaction. To stabilize and level the wings, anticipate by releasing
the rudder pedals.
Engine Abnormal response
Most engine malfunctions are taken into
account by one or several  ECAM  alerts that warn the flight
crew and provide the flight crew with the actions to perform. However,
some engine malfunctions may not trigger an  ECAM  alert.
These engine malfunctions may require some knowledge and the analysis
of the flight crew, so that the flight crew can recognize, understand,
and manage them.  When the flight crew identifies an abnormal parameter, the flight
crew should use all the information available to analyze the engine
malfunction. The flight crew should not consider only this abnormal
parameter to perform their analysis.  If possible, the flight crew should keep the engine running in flight.
Except if a procedure requires an engine shutdown, it is usually preferable
to keep the engine running. Even at idle, the engine powers the hydraulic,
electric, and bleed systems.  In addition, if the flight crew
is not sure which engine has a malfunction, the flight crew should
keep the engines running. If really damaged, the affected engine will
eventually fail.  Before approach, if the engine response remains abnormal, the flight
crew decides to keep the engine running or to shut it down taking
into account the aircraft controllability and the flight conditions.
Engine Failure at Low Speed (on ground)
If an engine failure occurs at low speed,
the resultant yaw may be significant, leading to rapid displacement
from the runway center line.
To regain or maintain directional
control on the runway, it is necessary:
To immediately
reduce both thrust levers to IDLE, which will reduce the thrust asymmetry
caused by the failed engine
To select both
reversers irrespective of which engine has failed
To use rudder
pedal for directional control, supplemented by symmetrical or differential
braking if needed.
The steering
hand-wheels may be used when taxi speed is reached.
If rudder pedal
input and differential braking are needed, apply both on the same
side
Below  72 , the ground spoilers will not deploy and the auto brake will not
activate.
Engine Failure after V1
AIRCRAFT HANDLING
If an engine fails after  V1 , the flight crew must continue the takeoff. The essential and primary
tasks are associated with the aircraft handling. The flight crew must
stabilize the aircraft at the correct pitch and airspeed, and establish
the aircraft on the correct flight path before the beginning of the  ECAM  procedure.
On the Ground:
The flight crew should use the rudder
conventionally to maintain the aircraft on the runway centerline.  At  VR , the flight crew should
rotate the aircraft using a continuous pitch rate of approximately  3  towards an initial pitch attitude of  12.5 . The combination of high  FLEX  temperatures and low  VR  speeds requires precise handling during the rotation and
liftoff. The  12.5  pitch target will ensure the aircraft becomes
airborne.
When Safely Airborne:
The flight crew should then follow the  SRS  orders that may request a lower pitch attitude in order
to obtain the target speed. If an engine failure occurs after liftoff,
the  SRS  targets the speed at which the failure occurred
(limited between  V2  and  V2  + 15 ).  In the
case of an engine failure at takeoff, the blue beta target appears
instead of the usual sideslip indication on the  PFD  ( ). The lateral normal law will
react to a detected thrust asymmetry and command some rudder surface
deflection to minimize the sideslip (there is no feedback of this
command to the pedals). Therefore, laterally, the aircraft is a stable
platform and no rush is required to use the rudder pedals. However,
since the lateral normal law does not order the entire rudder surface
deflection, the flight crew must adjust the rudder pedals as usual
to center the beta target in order to optimize the climb performance.  The flight crew should control the heading
as usual with the bank angle. The flight crew should accelerate if
it is not possible to center the beta target by applying full rudder.
The flight crew should use the rudder trim to gradually relieve the
pressure from the rudder pedals while keeping the beta target centered.
When the aircraft is properly trimmed, the  PF  should engage
the  AP .
When the  AP  is engaged
the rudder trim is managed via the  AP , therefore:
Manual rudder
trim command is inhibited
The flight crew
should release any pressure on the rudder pedals.
If a rudder pedal deflection
is maintained or applied after  AP  engagement, the  AP  may disengage.
PERFORMANCE CONSIDERATIONS
If the climb and/or acceleration
performance of the aircraft is less than expected, the flight crew
should confirm that the landing gear has been selected up and consider
the use of  TOGA  thrust, keeping in mind the following:
For a  FLEX  takeoff, setting the operating engine to  TOGA  provides
an additional performance margin but is not a requirement of the reduced
thrust takeoff certification. The application of  TOGA  very
rapidly supplies a large thrust increase but this comes with a significant
increase in yawing moment and an increased pitch rate. The selection
of  TOGA  restores thrust margins but it may increase the
workload in aircraft handling.
If the takeoff is
performed at  derated takeoff
thrust,
selecting  TOGA  at a speed below F can lead to loss of control
of the aircraft.
In  CONF  1+F, F speed
is not displayed on the  PFD . F speed is displayed on the
PERF TAKEOFF page.
Takeoff thrust
is limited to  10 .
DURING AIRCRAFT TURN
For bank angle limitations of the flight
guidance in case of one engine out  .
PROCEDURE
Initiation of the Procedure
For handling of ECAM/QRH/OEB procedures  .
The flight crew should control
and monitor the aircraft trajectory as a priority. They should delay
the acceleration phase only for the purpose to secure the engine.
"Secure the engine" means that the flight crew should continue
the  ECAM  procedure until:
" ENG  MASTER OFF" in the case of an engine failure without damage,
or
"AGENT
1  DISCH " in the case of an engine failure with damage,
or
Fire extinguished
or "AGENT 2  DISCH " in case of an engine fire.
Acceleration Segment
At the  EO  acceleration altitude,
the flight crew should push the  V/S  to level off and
to enable the speed to increase. If the flight crew manually flies
the aircraft, the  PF  should remember that, as airspeed
increases, the rudder input necessary to center the beta target decreases.
When the flap lever is at zero, the beta target reverts to the normal
sideslip indication.
If the decision has been taken
to delay the acceleration, the flight crew must not exceed the engine
out maximum acceleration altitude. The engine out maximum acceleration
altitude corresponds to the maximum altitude that can be achieved
with one engine out and the other engine operating at takeoff thrust
for a maximum of  10 .
Final Takeoff Segment
When the speed trend arrow reaches the
Green Dot speed, pull the  ALT  to engage  OP CLB . Set the  thrust s to
MCT when the  LVR MCT  message flashes on the  FMA  (this message appears, when the speed index reaches Green Dot).
Resume the climb phase with  THR MCT . If the  thrust s are
already in the FLX/MCT detent, move the thrust levers to  CL  and then back to MCT.
FMA MAN TOGA
FMA MAN FLEX
FMA THR MCT
If the engine failure occurs after takeoff,
the noise abatement procedures are no longer a requirement. In addition,
the acceleration altitude provides a compromise between the obstacle
clearance and the engine thrust limiting time. It enables the aircraft
to fly with Flap 0 and at Green Dot speed that provides the best climb
gradient.  When the
aircraft is established on the final takeoff flight path, the flight
crew should continue the  ECAM  procedure until the STATUS
page appears.
At this point, the flight crew
should:
Ensure that
the Acceleration flow pattern is performed
Consider to
relight the engine (if no damage).
Then, the flight crew should
review the STATUS page.
One Engine Out Flight Path
The flight crew flies the one
engine-out flight path in accordance with the departure briefing performed
at the gate:
The  EOSID , or
The  SID , or
Radar vectors,
etc.
Takeoff Pattern
Engine Failure During Initial Climb
This procedure is similar to the "Engine
Failure after V1" procedure. If the failure occurs above  V2  however, maintain the  SRS  commanded attitude.
In any case, the minimum speed must be  V2 .
When an engine failure is detected, the FMGS produces predictions
based on the engine-out configuration and any pre-selected speeds
entered in the  MCDU  are deleted.
Engine Failure During Cruise
GENERAL
When an engine failure occurs
during cruise, three possible strategies apply:
The standard
strategy
The obstacle
strategy
The fixed speed
strategy.
Unless
a specific procedure has been established before dispatch (considering  ETOPS  or mountainous areas), the standard strategy is used.
Pressing the  EO
CLR  key on the  MCDU  restores the all engine operative
predictions and performance. Reverting to one engine-out performance
again is not possible.
PROCEDURE
As soon as the engine failure
is recognized, the  PF  simultaneously:
Sets all thrust
levers to  MCT
Disconnects  A/THR .
In cruise, the  PF :
Sets a  HDG  as appropriate and pulls
Determines the
engine out recovery altitude.
When ready for descent, the  PF :
Sets the SPEED
and pulls
Sets the engine
out recovery altitude and pulls to engage for OPEN  DES .
When appropriate, the  PF  requires the  ECAM / OEB  actions.  At high flight levels, close to the weight
limits, the aircraft speed quickly reduces. Thus, the flight crew
should not delay to descent. The crew must not decelerate below green
dot.  The  A/THR  is disconnected to avoid any engine thrust reduction
when selecting speed according to strategy or when pulling for OPEN  DES  to initiate the descent. With the  A/THR  disconnected,
the target speed is controlled by the elevator when in OPEN  DES .  Carrying out the  ECAM  actions
should not be hurried, as it is important to complete the drill correctly.
STANDARD STRATEGY
Set speed target  0.78 / 300 .  The speed of  0.78 / 300  is chosen to ensure the aircraft
is within the stabilized windmill engine relight in-flight envelope.
The  REC
MAX
EO  Cruise altitude, which equates to  LRC  Engine-Out
maximum FL with anti-icing off, is displayed on the  MCDU
PROG  page (One engine out gross ceiling at long-range
speed is also available in the performance application of the  EFB  in case of double  FM  failure).
When the  V/S  becomes less
than  500 , select  V/S
-500  and  A/THR  on. Once established at level off altitude,
long-range cruise performance with one engine out may be computed
with the performance application of the  EFB .
OBSTACLE STRATEGY
To maintain the highest possible level
due to terrain, the drift down procedure must be adopted. The speed
target in this case is green dot. The procedure is similar to the
standard strategy, but as the speed target is now green dot, the rate
and angle of descent are reduced.  The  MCDU
PERF
CRZ  page in  EO  condition displays the drift down
ceiling (One engine out gross ceiling at green dot speed is also available
in the performance application of the  EFB ).
When clear of obstacles, revert to Standard
Strategy.
FIXED SPEED STRATEGY
This section provides the fixed speed
strategy recommended for  ETOPS  operation.  .
Engine Stall
An engine stall is the disruption
of the airflow in a turbine engine. When the blades of the engine
compressors stall, they are no longer able to compress the air from
the front to the rear of the engine. In some cases, there may be a
breakdown of the airflow, with the high pressure air at the end of
the compressor reversing flow, and exiting from the front of the engine.
If this occurs, it may result in an immediate and significant loss
of thrust.  From the flight crew perspective,
the engine stall is one of the most startling events at takeoff or
during flight. The engine stall should not take the flight crew away
from their primary task that is to fly the aircraft.
An engine stall can be due to
any of the following reasons:
An engine degradation
(e.g. compressor blade rupture, or high wear)
Ingestion of
foreign objects (e.g. birds), or ice
A malfunction
of the bleed system
A malfunction
of the engine controls (e.g. fuel scheduling, or stall protection
devices)
A significant
disturbance of the airflow (e.g. due to wake turbulence, non-appropriate
use of the thrust reverser after landing, or lightning strike).
During takeoff, and at high
power settings, the symptoms of an engine stall are the following:
One or more
very loud bangs, usually compared to a shotgun being fired a few meters
away
An instant loss
of thrust, or even a reverse thrust, that causes a yaw movement
Fluctuations
of the engine parameters ( EPR / N1 ,  N2 , or
N3  ). The engine may
give the impression to pump
An increase
of the  EGT
Engine vibrations
Flames may be
visible from both ends of the engine (inlet / tail pipe)
Acrid smell
in the cockpit.
During cruise, and at low power
settings (e.g. at thrust reduction at the  T/D ), the symptoms
of an engine stall are the following:
One or more
muffled bangs
Slow or no thrust
lever response
Fluctuations
of the engine parameters ( EPR / N1 ,  N2 , or
N3  ). The engine may
give the impression to pump
An increase
of the  EGT
Engine vibrations
Acrid smell
in the cockpit.
Most of the  FADEC s have functions that:
Regulate the
airflow through the compressor, to prevent engine stalls
Are able to
detect engine stalls
Try to recover
from an engine stall, without flight crew action, by modifying the
airflow.
When the  FADEC  detects
an engine stall, the  FADEC  requests that the  ENG
1(2)  STALL ECAM alert is triggered.  The  FADEC  is not able to detect
an engine stall in all cases. Therefore, if the flight crew detects
one or a combination of the engine stall symptoms, the flight crew
should suspect an engine stall, and apply the  QRH  Engine
Stall procedure.
The Engine Stall procedure is
not a memory item. Therefore, if a stall occurs during the cruise
phase, the flight crew shall take the time to assess the situation
before applying the procedure, as most of the times the  FADEC  will self-recover from the stall before any flight crew action.
The Engine Stall procedure ( ECAM  or  QRH ) is
as follows:
When the flight
crew has stabilized the aircraft trajectory, the flight crew first
reduces thrust to idle on the affected engine.  This action reduces
the differential pressure across the compressor. This helps the engine
airflow to become more stable.
When at idle
thrust, the flight crew checks the stability of the engine parameters
on the  EWD , and particularly the  EPR / N1 ,  EGT ,  N2 . The flight crew should also check
the engine vibrations on the  ENG
SD  page.
The flight crew shuts down the
engine if:
The engine parameters
fluctuate, or the  EGT  is high, or the engine vibrations
persist, or
The symptoms
of the engine stall persist at idle thrust.
The flight
crew can consider an engine relight if the engine stall was suspected
as transient. A transient stall is a temporary engine compressor surge.
It can occur for example in the case of temporary icing conditions
or when operating the engine at high altitudes with low engine compressor
surge margin.
If the engine parameters are
normal:
The flight crew
selects the anti-ice on, in order to increase the bleed demand.  This reduces the pressure
at the exit of the compressor, and helps the airflow to circulate
in the engine turbine from front to rear.
Then, the flight crew slowly
advances the thrust levers, as long as the engine stall does not occur
again. The engine response may be slow at high altitude.
If the engine
stall reoccurs, the flight crew keeps the engine thrust below the
stall threshold. The flight crew should not shut down the engine if
the engine stall can be avoided. The flight crew should manually control
the thrust on the affected engine between idle and the identified
stall threshold for the remainder of the flight.
If the engine
stall does not reoccur, the flight crew can resume normal operation
of the engine.
The flight crew must report
any engine stall for maintenance action.
Engine Tailpipe Fire
An engine tailpipe fire can only occur
at engine start or at engine shutdown. It is the result of an excess
of fuel in the combustion chamber, in the turbine or in the exhaust
nozzle, that ignites. A tailpipe fire is an internal fire in the engine,
compared with an engine fire that occurs outside the engine core and
gas path. No critical areas are affected in the engine in the case
of a tailpipe fire. However, it can have an effect on the aircraft
(e.g. damage the flaps). The correct method to manage an engine tailpipe
fire is to stop the fuel flow, and to ventilate the engine.  In the case of a tailpipe fire, there
is no cockpit alert. The only indication can be an increasing  EGT  due to the fire in the turbine. Therefore, most of the
time, the ground crew, cabin crew, or  ATC  visually detect
the tailpipe fire.
In the case of a tailpipe fire,
the flight crew must apply the  QRH
ENG  TAILPIPE
FIRE procedure, which requires the flight crew to:
Shut down the
engine, in order to stop the fuel flow
Dry crank the
engine, to remove the remaining fuel.
The flight crew should not use
the  ENG FIRE . This cuts off the electrical supply of the  FADEC , and stops the dry crank sequence performed by the  FADEC .  The flight crew should not use
the fire extinguisher, as it does not extinguish an internal engine
fire.
As a first priority, the fuel
flow must be stopped, and the engine must be ventilated.  If the tailpipe fire procedure does not
stop the fire, or if bleed air is not easily available, the ground
crew can use a ground fire extinguisher as a last option. Ground fire
extinguishing agent can cause serious corrosive damage to the engine
and requires a maintenance action on the engine.
Engine Vibrations
Engine vibrations are usually
caused by an imbalance of the engine that can be due to many reasons
such as:
A deformation
of one or several blades due to Foreign Object Damage ( FOD ), or a bird strike
A rupture or
a loss of one or several blades
An internal
engine failure (e.g. engine stall)
A fan icing
High engine vibration alone
does not require an engine in-flight shutdown. If the engine needs
to be shutdown, other symptoms and certainly an  ECAM  alert
will warn the flight crew, and request them to shut down the engine.  A high  N1  vibration level may be accompanied by perceivable
airframe vibrations.  When the
vibration level exceeds a certain threshold, the  ECAM  advisory
function automatically highlights the affected parameter. When the
flight crew identifies high engine vibrations, the flight crew must
refer to the  ECAM  ADVISORY CONDITIONS section of the  QRH . This section guides the flight crew to the  QRH  HIGH ENGINE VIBRATION procedure.  On the A320neo, the  ECAM  advisory is replaced by an  ECAM  alert that guides the flight crew toward the  QRH  HIGH ENGINE VIBRATION procedure.  In the case of high engine vibrations, the flight crew first checks
the engine parameters, and crosschecks them with the other engine.
The flight crew identifies if there are engine vibrations only, or
if there is another problem on the engine for which the flight crew
may expect an  ECAM  alert.  Then the flight crew determines if icing is suspected or not. The
flight crew should suspect icing if  N1  vibrations occur
without variation on other engine parameters. If the flight crew notices
unexpected behavior on other engine parameters, the flight crew should
consider that icing is not suspected. These checks take into account
the cases of engine problems in icing conditions, and also the cases
of vibrations due to icing, out of standard icing conditions.
If the flight crew suspects
icing, and if flight conditions permit, the flight crew should shed
the ice with the following procedure:
The flight crew
disconnects the  A/THR
The flight crew
performs several large thrust variations from idle to a thrust compatible
with the flight phase.  It may be necessary
to perform several engine run-ups (decrease and then increase of thrust)
to fully shed the ice.
If the flight crew does not
suspect icing, and if flight conditions permit, the flight crew reduces
thrust to make the vibrations decrease, and stay below the advisory
threshold.  If the vibrations do not decrease,
there may be another problem with the engine. The flight crew should
expect an  ECAM  alert that will provide guidance on the
actions to perform.  Finally, during the taxi-in
phase, the flight crew may consider to shut down the engine if the
flight crew experienced vibrations in flight, or if the flight crew
experiences vibrations during taxi. On ground, the flight crew should
consider engine shutdown in order to avoid increased damage to the
engine.
Engine Vibrations
Engine vibrations are usually
caused by an imbalance of the engine that can be due to many reasons
such as:
A deformation
of one or several blades due to Foreign Object Damage ( FOD ), or a bird strike
A rupture or
a loss of one or several blades
An internal
engine failure (e.g. engine stall)
A fan icing.
High engine vibration alone
does not require an engine in-flight shutdown. If the engine needs
to be shutdown, other symptoms and certainly an  ECAM  alert
will warn the flight crew, and request them to shut down the engine.  A high  N1  vibration level may be accompanied by perceivable
airframe vibrations.  When the vibration level exceeds
a certain threshold, an  ECAM  alert triggers and an  ECAM  advisory function automatically highlights the affected
parameter. The  ECAM  alert guides the flight crew toward
the  [QRH] HIGH ENGINE VIBRATION  procedure.  In the case of high engine vibrations, the flight crew first checks
the engine parameters, and crosschecks them with the other engine.
The flight crew identifies if there are engine vibrations only, or
if there is another problem on the engine for which the flight crew
may expect an  ECAM  alert.  Then the flight crew determines if icing is suspected or not. The
flight crew should suspect icing if  N1  vibrations occur
without variation on other engine parameters. If the flight crew notices
unexpected behavior on other engine parameters, the flight crew should
consider that icing is not suspected. These checks take into account
the cases of engine problems in icing conditions, and also the cases
of vibrations due to icing, out of standard icing conditions.
If the flight crew suspects
icing, and if flight conditions permit, the flight crew should shed
the ice with the following procedure:
The flight crew
disconnects the  A/THR
The flight crew
performs several large thrust variations from idle to a thrust compatible
with the flight phase.  It may be necessary
to perform several engine run-ups (decrease and then increase of thrust)
to fully shed the ice.
If the flight crew does not
suspect icing, and if flight conditions permit, the flight crew reduces
thrust to make the vibrations decrease, and stay below the  ECAM  alert and  ECAM  advisory threshold.  If the vibrations do not decrease, there may be another problem with
the engine. The flight crew should expect an  ECAM  alert
that will provide guidance on the actions to perform.  Finally, during the taxi-in phase, the flight crew may consider to
shut down the engine if the flight crew experienced vibrations in
flight, or if the flight crew experiences vibrations during taxi.
On ground, the flight crew should consider engine shutdown in order
to avoid increased damage to the engine.
One Engine Inoperative - Circling
In normal conditions, circling
with one engine inoperative requires the down wind leg to be flown
in  CONF  3, with landing gear extended.  In hot and high conditions and at high landing weight, the aircraft
may not be able to maintain level flight in  CONF  3 with
landing gear down. The flight crew should check the maximum weight
showed in the QRH CIRCLING APPROACH WITH ONE ENGINE INOPERATIVE procedure
table.  If the landing weight is above this maximum value, the landing
gear extension should be delayed until established on final approach.  If the approach is flown at less than  750
RA , the warning " L/G  NOT DOWN" will be triggered.
"TOO LOW GEAR" warning is to be expected, if the landing
gear is not downlocked at  500
RA . Therefore, if weather
conditions permit, it is recommended to fly a higher circling pattern.
One Engine Inoperative - Go-Around
A one engine inoperative go-around
is similar to a go-around flown with all engines.  On the application of  TOGA , the flight crew must apply
rudder promptly to compensate for the increase in thrust and consequently
to keep the beta target centred.  Provided the flap lever is selected
to Flap 1 or greater,  SRS  will engage and will be followed.
If  SRS  is not available, the initial target pitch attitude
will be  12.5 .  The lateral  FD  mode
will be  GA TRK  (or  NAV  if option installed)
and this must be considered with respect to terrain clearance.  At the engine-out acceleration altitude, apply the same technique
as described earlier.  .
One Engine Inoperative - Landing
Autoland is available with one engine
inoperative, and maximum use of the  AP  should be made to
minimise crew workload. If required, a manual approach and landing
with one engine inoperative is conventional. The flight crew should
trim to keep the slip indication centred. It remains yellow as long
as the thrust on the remaining engine(s) is below a certain value.
With flap selected and above this threshold value, the indicator
becomes the blue beta target. This is a visual cue that the aircraft
is approaching its maximum thrust capability.
The flight crew should not select the
gear down too early, as large amounts of power will be required to
maintain level flight at high weights and/or high altitude airports.
The flight crew can reset the rudder
trim in the later phase of the approach, before engine thrust reduction.
On pressing the rudder trim reset button, the trim is removed and
the flight crew should anticipate the increased rudder force required.
With rudder trim at zero, the neutral rudder pedal position corresponds
to zero rudder and zero nose wheel deflection.
Thrust Levers Management in the Case of Inoperative Reverser(s)
Preface
This section provides recommendations
on thrust levers management in case of inoperative reverser(s). These
recommendations are applicable in case of in-flight failure (including
engine failure) and/or in case of  MEL  dispatch with reverser(s)
deactivated.
At Least One Reverser Operative
If at least one reverser is operative,
the general recommendation is to select the reversers on both engines
during rejected takeoff ( RTO ) and at landing.
The
ENG
1(2) REVERSER FAULT
alert may be triggered
after the reversers are selected. This is to remind the flight crew
that one reverser is inoperative.
No Reversers Operative
If no reversers are operative, the general
recommendation is to not select the reversers during  RTO  and at landing.
However,
the  PF  must set both thrust levers to the IDLE detent.
Briefing
Importance of the Flight Crew Briefing
Among others, the aircraft status
must be reviewed during the flight crew briefing. Any particularities
(operational consequences, procedures, associated task sharing and
callout) must be reviewed at that time. The flight crew must notably
review:
The status of
the thrust reversers and if reverser thrust can be used
Operational
effect (aircraft handling during roll-out).
Flight Crew Incapacitation
GENERAL
Flight crew incapacitation is a real
safety hazard that occurs more frequently than many of the other emergencies.
Incapacitation can occur in many forms, that range from sudden death
to partial loss of function. Sometimes the flight crew does not have
any symptom before incapacitation.
DETECTION
In order to help with the early
detection of flight crew incapacitation, the Crew Resource Management
(CRM) principles should be applied:
Correct crew
coordination that involves routine monitoring and aural crosschecks.
The absence of standard callouts at the appropriate time may indicate
incapacitation of one flight crewmember
If one flight
crewmember does not feel well, the flight crew must inform the other
flight crewmember.
Other symptoms, for example
incoherent speech, a pale and(or) fixed facial expression, or irregular
breathing, may indicate the beginning of incapacitation.
ACTION
In the case of flight crew incapacitation,
the fit flight crewmember should apply the following actions:
Take over and
ensure a safe flight path:
Announce ″I
have control″
If the incapacitated
flight crewmember causes interference with the handling of the aircraft,
press the sidestick pb for 40 seconds  The time required of  40  includes the time necessary for  AP  deactivation
(if  AP  engaged) and the time for offside sidestick deactivation.
Keep or engage
the onside AP, as required
Perform callouts
(challenge and response included) and checklists aloud.
Inform the  ATC  of the emergency
Take any steps
possible to contain the incapacitated flight crewmember. These steps
may involve cabin attendants
In order to
reduce the workload, consider:
Early approach
preparation and checklists reading
Automatic Landing
Use of radar
vectoring and long approach.
Land at the
nearest suitable airport after consideration of all pertinent factors
Arrange medical
assistance onboard and after landing, providing as many details as
possible about the condition of the affected flight crewmember
Request assistance
from any medically qualified passenger, except for flight with only
two flight crewmembers onboard (i.e. freighter or ferry flight).
General
In flight, the rudder controls
the yaw, and the vertical stabilizer ensures directional stability.
The rudder and the vertical stabilizer are designed to :
Provide sufficient
lateral/directional control of the aircraft during crosswind takeoffs
and landings, within the certified crosswind limits
Provide aircraft
control in the case of an engine failure, and maximum asymmetric thrust
at any speed above the minimum control speed on ground ( VMCG ).
Flight crew controls the rudder
via a conventional mechanical rudder control.  FAC s computers
provide:
Yaw damping
Rudder travel
limitation.
for more information about
yaw control.
Operational Recommendations
In order to avoid exceeding
structural loads on the rudder and vertical stabilizer, the following
recommendations must be observed.
The rudder is designed to control the aircraft, in the following
situations
A. In normal Operations, For lateral control
During takeoff
roll, when on ground, particularly in crosswind conditions
During landing
flare with crosswind, for decrab purposes
During the landing
roll, when on the ground.
In the
above situations, large and even rapid rudder inputs may be necessary
in order to maintain control of the aircraft.  The flight crew should always apply the
rudder corrections as necessary, in order to obtain the appropriate
aircraft response.  On Airbus
aircraft, the rudder control system includes a turn coordination function
to achieve acceptable turn coordination.
B. To counteract thrust asymmetry
Up to
full rudder deflection can be used to compensate for the yawing moments
that are due to asymmetric thrust.
At high speed (i.e. slats retracted),
thrust asymmetry (eg. due to an engine failure) does not have a significant
effect on the yaw control of the aircraft. The rudder deflection required
to counter an engine failure and center the sideslip is small.
C. In some other abnormal situations
The flight
crew may also use the rudder pedals in some abnormal situations. For
example:
Loss of both
yaw damper systems. The flight crew uses the rudder pedals as deemed
necessary, for turn coordination to prevent excessive sideslip.
Rudder trim
runaway. The flight crew uses the rudder pedals in order to return
the rudder to neutral
Landing with
an abnormal landing gear position: The flight crew uses the rudder
pedals for directional control on the ground.
In all
of the normal or abnormal situations that are described above, correct
rudder pedals use does not affect the structural integrity of the
aircraft.
In the event of a rudder travel
limit system failure, refer to the relevant RUDDER TRAVEL LIMIT FAULT
procedure.
The flight crew may use the
rudder trim in case of failures leading to a permanent roll asymmetry
(e.g. G+B hydraulic failure) to alleviate permanent sidestick input.
The rudder should not be used
To induce roll
To counter roll,
induced by any type of turbulence.
Regardless
of the airborne flight condition, aggressive, full or nearly full,
opposite rudder pedal inputs must not be applied. Such inputs can
lead to loads higher than the limit, and can result in structural
damage or failure. The rudder travel limiter system is not designed
to prevent structural damage or failure in the event of such rudder
system inputs.  For dutch
roll, the flight control laws combined with the natural aircraft damping
are sufficient to correctly damp the dutch roll oscillations. Therefore,
the flight crew should not use the rudder pedals in order to complement
the flight control laws.
Stop Rudder Input Aural Alert
The "STOP
RUDDER INPUT" aural alert and red  PFD  message associated
with MASTER WARNING light is triggered when inappropriate rudder inputs
are detected. These alerts advise the flight crew to avoid excessive
rudder load. The flight crew should react and immediately release
the rudder pedals.
Avoid large and rapid
rudder inputs.
Objective
The Flight Director ( FD ) and the Auto Pilot ( AP ) assist the flight crew to fly
the aircraft within the normal flight.
To achieve this objective:
The  FD  provides adequate attitude or flight path orders and enables the
Pilot Flying ( PF ) to accurately fly the aircraft manually
The  AP  takes over routine tasks. This give the  PF  the necessary
time and resources to assess the overall operational situation.
Normal Operations
The  A/THR  can only
be active, when the thrust levers are between IDLE and the  CLB  detent.
When the thrust levers are beyond
the  CLB  detent, thrust is controlled manually to the thrust
lever Angle, and the  A/THR  is armed ( A/THR  appears
in blue on the  FMA ). This means that the  A/THR  is ready to be re-activated, when the flight crew sets the thrust
levers back to the  CLB  detent (or below).
AT TAKEOFF
The thrust levers are set either
full forward to  TOGA , or to the  FLX  detent.
 Thrust is manually controlled to the  TLA , and  A/THR  is armed. The  FMA  indicates this in blue.
AFTER TAKEOFF
When the aircraft reaches  THR  RED  ALT , the flight crew sets the thrust levers back
to the  CLB  detent.  This activates
A/THR .  MAX CLB  will, therefore, be the maximum normal thrust setting
that will be commanded by the  A/THR  in  CLB ,  CRZ ,  DES , or  APPR , as required.
DURING APPROACH
The flight crew should use autothrust
for approaches. On final approach, it usually gives more accurate
speed control, although in turbulent conditions the actual airspeed
may vary from the target speed, by as much as five knots. Although
the changeover between auto and manual thrust is easy to make with
a little practice, the flight crew should, when using autothrust for
the final approach, keep it engaged until the flight crew retards
the thrust levers to idle for touchdown. If the flight crew is going
to make the landing using manual thrust, the flight crew should disconnect
the  A/THR  by the time the flight crew has reached  1000  on the final approach.
If the
flight crew makes a shallow flare, with  A/THR  engaged,
it will increase thrust to maintain the approach speed until the flight
crew pulls the thrust levers back to idle. Therefore the flight crew
should avoid making a shallow flare, or should retard the thrust levers
as soon as it is no longer necessary to carry thrust, and if necessary
before the flight crew receives the “retard” reminder.  Although use of the autothrust is recommended
for the entire approach, this does not absolve the flight crew from
responsibility to monitor its performance, and to disconnect it if
it fails to maintain speed at the selected value.
Operations with One Engine Inoperative
The above-noted principles also
apply to an one-engine inoperative situation, except that  A/THR  can only be active, when thrust levers are set between  IDLE  and  MCT .
In the case of an engine failure, the
thrust lever of the operative engine will be set to  MCT  detent for the remainder of the flight. This is because  MCT  is the maximum thrust that can usually be commanded by the  A/THR  for climb or acceleration, in all flight phases (e.g.  CLB ,  CRZ ,  DES  or  APPR ).  With  AP  OFF, flight crews
may feel that the directional control is more difficult because the  A/THR  changes the thrust setting. The choice between using,
or not using  A/THR  after engine failure is at flight crew
discretion. As far as the speed control is concerned, the  A/THR  is usually more accurate than the flight crew.
Alpha Floor
When the aircraft's angle-of-attack
goes beyond the ALPHA FLOOR threshold, this means that the aircraft
has decelerated significantly (below ALPHA PROT speed):  A/THR  activates automatically and orders  TOGA  thrust, regardless
of the thrust lever position.
The example below illustrates
that:
The aircraft
is in descent with the thrust levers manually set to IDLE.
The aircraft
decelerates, during manual flight with the  FD  off, as indicated
on the  FMA .
When the speed decreases, so that the angle-of-attack reaches the
ALPHA FLOOR threshold,  A/THR  activates and orders  TOGA  thrust, despite the fact that the thrust levers are at
IDLE.
When the
aircraft accelerates again, the angle-of-attack drops below the ALPHA
FLOOR threshold.  TOGA  thrust is maintained or locked. This
enables the flight crew to reduce thrust, as necessary.  TOGA
LK  appears on the  FMA  to indicate that  TOGA  thrust is locked. The desired thrust can only be recovered
by setting  A/THR  to off, with the instinctive disconnect
pushbutton.  ALPHA floor is available, when the flight controls are in NORMAL
LAW, from liftoff to  100
RA  at landing. It is
inhibited in some cases of engine failure.
To Set Autothrust To Off
1) Use of Instinctive Disconnect (I/D) Pushbutton
If the  I/D  is pressed when the
thrust levers are in  CL  detent, thrust will increase to  MAX
CL . This will cause an unwanted thrust increase
and may destabilize the approach.
Therefore, the recommended technique
for setting  A/THR  to off is:
Return the thrust
levers to approximately the current thrust setting, by observing the
TLA symbol on the thrust gauge
Press the  I/D .
This technique minimizes thrust
discontinuity, when setting  A/THR  to off.
2) Thrust Levers Set to Idle
If thrust levers are set to
IDLE,  A/THR  is set to off. This technique is usually used
in descent, when the  A/THR  is in  THR  IDLE, or
at landing. During flare, with the  A/THR  active, the thrust
levers are set to the  CLB  detent. Then, when thrust reduction
is required for landing, the thrust levers should be moved rapidly
and set to the IDLE stop. This will retard thrust, and set  A/THR  to off.  As a reminder, the "RETARD" aural alert will
sound. In flare, this aural alert will occur at  20 , except in the case of autoland, where it occurs at  10 .  It should
be noted that, when the thrust levers are set back to IDLE and  A/THR  set to off: The  A/THR  can be reactivated by
pressing the pushbutton on the  FCU , and returning the thrust
levers to the applicable detent. The thrust levers should be immediately
returned to the applicable detent, in order to avoid an  ECAM  "  AUTO FLT
A/THR LIMITED " alert.
3) Use of the  A/THR  PUSHBUTTON
Use of the  A/THR  is considered
to be an involuntary  A/THR  off command (e.g. in the case
of a failure). When pressed, thrust is frozen and remains locked at
the value it had when the flight crew pressed the  A/THR ,
as long as the thrust levers remain in the  CLB  or  MCT  detent.
If thrust levers are out of
detent, thrust is manually controlled and, therefore, unlocked.
An  ECAM  caution and
an  FMA  message trigger during thrust lock:
THR LK  appears on the  FMA
The
AUTO FLT
A/THR OFF  ECAM alert is triggered
The
ENG
THRUST
LOCKED  ECAM alert is triggered, if the thrust levers are not
moved within  5 .
In this
case, when the flight crew moves the thrust levers out of detent,
full manual control is recovered, and the  THR
LK  message disappears from the  FMA .  This feature should not be used, unless
the  I/D  are inoperative.
Autothrust Use - Summary
Use of  A/THR  is recommended
during the entire flight.
It may be used in most failures
cases, including:
Engine failure,
even during autoland
Abnormal configurations.
A/THR  should be monitored
via the:
FMA  – SPEED / SPEED TREND on the  PFD
N1 / N1  command ( EPR ) on the  ECAM
E/WD .
Use of Summaries
General
The  QRH  summaries are  QRH  procedures created to help the flight crew to perform actions
in the case of an
ELEC  EMER CONFIG
or
a dual hydraulic failure.  The  QRH  summaries are divided into four sections: CRUISE, APPROACH,
LANDING, and GO-AROUND.
Situation Assessment with the CRUISE Section of the QRH Summary
Situation Assessment with the QRH Summary
Steps 1 and 2: The flight crew should apply the
ECAM
first.  This includes both the procedure
and the STATUS page. When  ECAM  actions are completed, the  PM  announces "ECAM ACTIONS COMPLETE". Then, the  PM  should refer to the corresponding  QRH  summaries.
Step 3:  After the check of the STATUS page,
the  PM  should refer to the CRUISE section of the  QRH  summaries. The CRUISE section highlights the remaining systems (in  ELEC
EMER  configuration only), the main limitations,
and the flight capability of the aircraft.
The CRUISE
section helps the flight crew to assess the situation and to select
an appropriate runway for landing.
As indicated in the CRUISE section,
the flight crew should refer to the performance application or the
corresponding chapters of the  QRH  for:
The evaluation
of increased fuel consumption ( step 4 )
The landing
performance computation at the selected airport ( step 5 ).
Approach Preparation
Approach Preparation with the QRH Summary
While the flight crew checks the STATUS
page ( step 6 ), they should use the
APPROACH, LANDING, and GO-AROUND sections to support the approach
preparation ( steps 7 and 8 ).  When appropriate, the APPROACH, LANDING,
and GO-AROUND sections include the LANDING WITH SLATS or FLAPS JAMMED
procedure and the  L/G  GRAVITY EXTENSION procedure that
the flight crew must apply during the approach, landing, and go-around
phases.
Arrival Briefing
Arrival Briefing with the QRH Summary
The flight crew should use the APPROACH,
LANDING, and GO-AROUND sections of the  QRH  summary to perform
the arrival briefing, while crosschecking the STATUS page ( steps 9 and 10 ).
Approach
Approach with the QRH Summary
To perform the approach, the flight crew
should refer to the APPROACH section ( step 11 ).  When the
aircraft is in final configuration, the flight crew can rapidly review
the LANDING and GO-AROUND sections, as a reminder (braking,  NWS , reversers, and  L/G  retraction in the case of a go-around).  Finally, the  PM  should check
the STATUS page ( step 12 ) and check
that all the  APPR
PROC  actions are completed.
Golden Rules for Pilots
Introduction
The Airbus "Golden Rules
for Pilots" are operational guidelines, based on all of the following:
Basic flying
principles
The adaptation
of these basic flying principles to modern-technology aircraft
The provision
of information about required crew coordination for the operation
of Airbus aircraft.
The objective of these Golden
Rules is to also take into account the principles of flight crew interaction
with automated systems, and the principles of Crew Resource Management
( CRM ), in order to help prevent the causes of many accidents
or incidents and to ensure flight efficiency.
General Golden Rules
The following four
Golden Rules for Pilots are applicable to all normal operations, and
to all unexpected or abnormal/emergency situations:
Fly. Navigate. Communicate:
In this order and with appropriate tasksharing.
Fly! Navigate! Communicate!
The flight crew must perform these three actions in sequence and must
use appropriate tasksharing in normal and abnormal operations, in
manual flight or in flight with the  AP  engaged.
The following explains each
of the three actions, and the steps associated with the performance
of these actions:
Fly
"Fly"  indicates that:
The Pilot Flying  (  PF  ) must concentrate on  "flying the aircraft"  to monitor
and control the pitch attitude, bank angle, airspeed, thrust, sideslip,
heading, etc., in order to achieve and maintain the desired targets,
vertical flight path, and lateral flight path.
The Pilot Monitoring  (  PM  ) must assist the  PF  and
must  actively monitor  flight parameters,
and call out  any excessive deviation. The  PM 's role of
"actively monitoring" is very important.
Therefore, both flight crewmembers
must:
Focus and concentrate
on their tasks to ensure appropriate tasksharing
Maintain situational
awareness and immediately resolve any uncertainty as a crew.
Navigate
"Navigate"  refers to and includes the following four  "Know where ..."  statements, in order to ensure
situational awareness:
Know  where you are…
Know  where you should be…
Know  where you should go…
Know  where the weather, terrain, and obstacles are .
Communicate
"Communicate" involves
effective and appropriate crew communication between the:
PF  and the  PM
Flight crew
and Air Traffic Control ( ATC )
Flight crew
and the cabin crew
Flight crew
and the ground crew.
Communication
enables the flight crew to safely and appropriately perform the flight,
and enhance situational awareness. To ensure good communication, the
flight crew should use  standard phraseology  and the  applicable callouts.
In abnormal and emergency situations,
the  PF  must recover a steady flight path, and the flight
crew must identify the flight situation. The  PF  must then
inform  ATC  and the cabin crew of:
The flight situation
The flight crew’s
intentions.
The flight
crew must therefore always keep in mind the key message:
Fly the Aircraft, Fly the Aircraft, Fly the Aircraft...
To safely and appropriately
perform a flight, both flight crewmembers must have basic flying skills,
and must be able to fly with appropriate tasksharing in all situations.
Use the appropriate level of automation at all times.
Aircraft are equipped
with several levels of automation, used to perform specific tasks.
The appropriate use of automated
systems significantly helps the flight crew with, for example:
Workload management
Situation awareness
(traffic,  ATC  communication, etc.).
The flight crew must, at all
times, perform both of the following:
Determine and select  the appropriate level
of automation that can include manual flight
The decision to use manual flight
must be agreed between both pilots and must be based on an individual
assessment of the pilot. This assessment  should include aircraft
status (malfunctions), pilot fatigue, weather conditions, traffic
situation, and if the  PF  is familiar with the area.
Understand  the operational effect of the
selected level of automation.
Understand the
FMA
at all times.
The flight crew must
confirm the operational effect of all actions on the  FCU , or on the  MCDU , via a crosscheck of the corresponding
annunciation or data on the  PFD  and on the  ND .
At all times, the flight crew
should be aware of the following:
Guidance modes
(armed or engaged)
Guidance targets
Aircraft response
in terms of attitude, speed, and trajectory
Transition or
reversion modes.
Therefore, to ensure correct
situational awareness, at all times, the flight crew must:
Monitor the
FMA
Announce the
FMA
Confirm the
FMA
Understand the
FMA  .
Take action if things do not go as expected.
If the
aircraft does not follow the desired vertical or lateral flight path,
or the selected targets , and if the flight crew does not have
sufficient time to analyze and solve the situation, the flight  crew must immediately take appropriate or required
actions , as follows:
The  PF  should change
the level of automation:
From managed
guidance to selected guidance, or
From selected
guidance to manual flying.
The  PM  should perform
the following actions in sequence:
Communicate
with the  PF
Challenge the
actions of the  PF , when necessary
Take over, when
necessary.
General Rule
General Rule
When using the "bird", the
flight crew should first change attitude, and then check the result
with reference to the "bird".
Approach Using FPA Guidance
Approach Using FPA Guidance
The  FPV  is particularly
useful for this type of approach. The flight crew can select values
for the inbound track and final descent path angle on the  FCU . Once established inbound, only minor corrections should be required
to maintain an accurate approach path. The flight crew can monitor
the tracking and descent flight path, with reference to the track
indicator and the "bird".  However, the flight crew should understand that the "bird"
only indicates a flight path angle and track, and does not provide
guidance to a ground-based radio facility. Therefore, even if the
"bird" indicates that the aircraft is flying with the correct
flight path angle and track, this does not necessarily mean that the
aircraft is on the correct final approach path.  The  TRK - FPA  Flight
Director ( FD ) is particularly useful for guiding the aircraft
during non-precision approaches, although, it can also be used at
other times. When using this mode of the  FD , the pilot
places the  FPV  symbol in the center of the flight path
director ( FPD ) symbol. This is similar to using the  FD  in  HDG - V/S , when the pilot puts the
center of the fixed aircraft symbol at the center of the crossed bars
of the  FD . If the  FCU  is set on the correct
track and flight path angle, and if the  FPV  and the  FPD  are aligned, they will guide the aircraft along a trajectory
that is stabilized with respect to the ground, whereas when the pilot
is using  HDG - V/S , the trajectory is stabilized
with respect to the air. However, if the aircraft is disturbed from
this ideal trajectory, merely following the  FPD  will result
in its following a trajectory that is parallel to the intended trajectory.
Thus, when the aircraft is disturbed from the original trajectory,
the pilot must adjust either its track or its flight path angle or
both in order to obtain guidance back to the original trajectory.
Visual Circuits
Visual Circuits
The  FPV  can be used as a cross-reference,
when flying visual circuits. On the downwind leg, the flight crew
should position the wings of the "bird" on the horizon,
in order to maintain level flight. The downwind track should be set
on the  FCU . The flight crew should position the tail of
the "bird" on the blue track index on the  PFD  , in order to maintain the desired track downwind.  On the final inbound approach, the track
index should be set to the final approach course of the runway. A
standard  3  approach path is indicated, when the top of the
bird's tail is immediately below the horizon, and the bottom of the
"bird" is immediately above the  5  nose down marker.
Final Approach
Final Approach
The "bird" is a very useful
flight reference, because it provides the trajectory parameters, and
quickly warns the pilot of downburst. In addition, together with the  GS
MINI  protection, it is an excellent indicator
of shears or wind variations. The position of the "bird"
in relation to the fixed aircraft symbol provides an immediate indication
of the wind direction. Therefore, when approaching the minimum, the
flight crew knows in which direction to search for the runway.  If the target approach speed symbol moves
upward, this indicates that there is headwind gust.  If the "bird"
drifts to the right, this indicates that there is wind from the left.
Go-Around
Go-around
The pilot must take care when making a go-around with the  FPV  selected. There is inevitably some lag between the pilot’s raising
the nose to commence the go-around and the aircraft’s responding by
changing its trajectory.
For the go-around, the appropriate flight
reference is the attitude, because go-around is a dynamic maneuver.
Therefore, when performing a go-around, regardless of the previously-selected
flight reference, upon selection of  TOGA , the  FD  bars are automatically restored in  SRS / GA  TRACK
modes, and the "bird" is automatically removed.
Operating Techniques
ROW Alerts During Final Approach
If during final approach, the  IF WET: RWY TOO SHORT  message
is displayed on the  PFD , the flight crew must perform a
go-around when the runway condition is either not dry or contaminated.
If the runway condition is dry, the flight crew can disregard the
message and continue the approach.
If during final approach, the  RWY TOO SHORT  message is displayed
on the  PFD , the flight crew must perform a go-around. In
addition to the message displayed on the  PFD , the aural
alert  "RUNWAY TOO SHORT"  triggers
below  200
AGL  to remind the flight crew of
the necessity to perform a go-around.
ROP Alerts on Ground
During the landing roll, if the "BRAKE,
MAX BRAKING, MAX BRAKING" aural alert triggers, the  PF  must immediately:
Apply and keep
maximum manual pedal braking, and
Apply and keep
maximum reverse thrust.
If the
"SET MAX REVERSE" aural alert triggers, the flight crew
must immediately apply and keep maximum reverse thrust.  If the "KEEP MAX REVERSE" aural
alert triggers, the flight crew must keep maximum reverse thrust as
long as necessary.  Below  70 , when the flight crew considers that the aircraft can stop on the
runway and the  PFD  message  MAX REVERSE  is no longer displayed, the flight
crew sets idle reverse thrust. Unless required due to an emergency,
it is recommended to avoid the use of high level of reverse thrust
at low speed in order to avoid engine stall and excessive  EGT .
In the case of lateral directional
control difficulties at low speed in adverse conditions (crosswind
on the critical side, low runway friction) with a failure leading
to asymmetrical reverse thrust (thrust reverse failure or dispatch
with one thrust reverse inoperative), the flight crew should recover
directional control and then, follow the "SET MAX REVERSE"
and "KEEP MAX REVERSE" aural alerts.
APPROACHING THE RUNWAY END
The  ROP  function takes into
account the  ROPS  runway length of the  TAWS  database
and its associated end of runway, in order to compute the  ROP  alert with adequate margins.
The  ROP  function
does not take into account the airport layout (e.g. taxiway at the
far end of the runway) and expects that the aircraft will decelerate
before it vacates at the runway end.
Therefore,
the flight crew should anticipate a deceleration below inhibition
speed when the aircraft approaches the end of the runway.
Operating Techniques
Runway condition selection
During descent preparation, the flight
crew must select the appropriate runway condition between DRY and
WET, according to weather information, via the runway condition rotary
selector.  In the
case of runway condition change during approach, the flight crew should
select the appropriate runway condition via the runway condition rotary
selector. For contaminated runway, the flight crew must select WET
via the runway condition rotary selector.
ROW Alerts During Final Approach
If during final approach, the  RWY TOO SHORT  message is displayed
on the  PFD , the flight crew considers to perform a go-around.
If during
final approach, the  RWY TOO
SHORT  message is displayed on the  PFD , the flight
crew must perform a go-around. In addition to the message displayed
on the  PFD , the aural alert  "RUNWAY
TOO SHORT"  triggers below  200
AGL  to remind the flight crew of the need to perform a go-around.
ROP Alerts on Ground
During the landing roll, if the "BRAKE,
MAX BRAKING, MAX BRAKING" aural alert triggers, the  PF  must immediately:
Apply and keep
maximum manual pedal braking, and
Apply and keep
maximum reverse thrust.
If the
"SET MAX REVERSE" aural alert triggers, the flight crew
must immediately apply and keep maximum reverse thrust.  If the "KEEP MAX REVERSE" aural
alert triggers, the flight crew must keep maximum reverse thrust as
long as necessary.  Below  70 , when the flight crew considers that the aircraft can stop on the
runway and the  PFD  message  MAX REVERSE  is no longer displayed, the flight
crew sets idle reverse thrust. Unless required due to an emergency,
it is recommended to avoid the use of high level of reverse thrust
at low speed in order to avoid engine stall and excessive  EGT .
In the case of lateral directional
control difficulties at low speed in adverse conditions (crosswind
on the critical side, low runway friction) with a failure leading
to asymmetrical reverse thrust (thrust reverse failure or dispatch
with one thrust reverse inoperative), the flight crew should recover
directional control and then, follow the "SET MAX REVERSE"
and "KEEP MAX REVERSE" aural alerts.
APPROACHING THE RUNWAY END
The  ROP  function takes into
account the  ROPS  runway length of the  TAWS  database
and its associated end of runway, in order to compute the  ROP  alert with adequate margins.
The  ROP  function
does not take into account the airport layout (e.g. taxiway at the
far end of the runway) and expects that the aircraft will decelerate
before it vacates at the runway end.  Therefore,
the flight crew should anticipate a deceleration below inhibition
speed when the aircraft approaches the end of the runway.
Questions and Suggestions
For any questions or comments related
to this manual, the Operator’s Flight Operations Management may contact
the Airbus Flight Operations Support & Training Standards department.
General
The Normal Procedures chapter
outlines the techniques that the flight crew should apply during each
flight phase, in order to optimize the use of the aircraft.  The flight
crew should read the Normal Procedures chapter in conjunction with
the  FCOM , which provides the normal procedures and their
associated tasksharing, callouts, and checklists.  All of these flying techniques are applicable to normal conditions.
Communication
CROSS-COCKPIT COMMUNICATION
The term "cross-cockpit communication"
refers to communication between the  PF  and the  PM . This communication is important for any flight crew. Each time
one flight crewmember adjusts or changes information and/or equipment
on the flight deck, the other flight crewmember must be informed,
and an acknowledgement must be  obtained.
Such adjustments and changes
include:
FMGS alterations
Changes in speed
or Mach
Tuning navigation
aids
Flight path
modifications
System selections
(e.g. anti-ice system).
When using cross-cockpit communication,
standard phraseology is essential to ensure effective flight crew
communication. This phraseology should be concise and exact.
In addition to the standard
callout, the flight crew should communicate to enhance situation awareness.
As per PM role and in accordance with the Airbus golden rules, the  PM  should monitor and announce any situation that requires  PF  reaction or should takeover, when necessary. This is the
case for any deviation from the intended flight path, or any case
that requires a new assessment of the flight situation and of the
flight crew's intention.
STERILE COCKPIT RULE
When the aircraft is below  10000 , any conversation that is not essential  should be avoided: This
includes conversations that take place in the cockpit, or between
the flight crew and cabin crew. It is important to adhere to this
policy, in order to facilitate communication between both of the flight
crew, and to ensure the effective communication of emergency or safety-related
information, between flight and cabin crew members.
Clean Cockpit
Objects not stored in their dedicated area in the cockpit may fall
and cause hazards such as damage to the equipment or inadvertent operations
of the controls, or pushbuttons.
Airbus highly recommends that
the flight crews put and store all objects in their dedicated area
in the cockpit:
Cups with lids
in the cup holders
Bottles with
caps in the bottle holders
Books and paper,
if any,  in the lateral stowage
Trash in the
waste bin in the lateral console
Meal trays on
the floor behind the flight crew. The flight attendants should collect
the meal trays as soon as possible
Personal equipment
properly secured in the various stowage areas
Portable electronic
devices properly secured in the flight document stowage ( ).
The flight crew must
carefully handle liquids in the cockpit area in accordance with the
liquid prohibited zone in order to avoid any damage to equipment or
inadvertent operation of controls.  The flight crew must
always ensure that the cups are equipped with lids and bottles equipped
with caps.
Clean Cockpit
Objects not stored in their
dedicated area in the cockpit may fall and cause hazards such as damage
to the equipment or inadvertent operations of the controls, or pushbuttons.
Airbus highly recommends that
the flight crews put and store all objects in their dedicated area
in the cockpit:
Cups with lids
in the cup holders
Bottles with
caps in the bottle holders
Books and paper,
if any,  in the lateral stowage
Trash in the
waste bin in the lateral console
Meal trays on
the floor behind the flight crew. The flight attendants should collect
the meal trays as soon as possible
Personal equipment
properly secured in the various stowage areas
Portable electronic
devices properly secured in the flight document stowage, in the checklist
stowage or in the operation manual stowage ( ).
The flight crew must
carefully handle liquids in the cockpit area in accordance with the
liquid prohibited zone in order to avoid any damage to equipment or
inadvertent operation of controls.  The flight crew must
always ensure that the cups are equipped with lids and bottles equipped
with caps.
TCAS
ALL is the default selection. The flight
crew may select another mode depending on the situation.  For more information,  .
TA  shall be selected:
In the case
of engine failure, or
When the flight
is performed with landing gear down, or
During the approach,
in the case of:
Known nearby
traffic, which is in visual contact, or
Operations at
specific airports, and during specific procedures that an operator
identifies as having a significant potential for not wanted and not
appropriate  RA s, e.g. closely spaced parallel runways,
converging runways.
The flight crew should comply with the
vertical speed limitations during the last  2000  of a climb
or descent. In particular, the flight crew should limit vertical speeds
to  1500  during the last  2000  of a climb
or descent, especially when they are aware of traffic that is converging
in altitude and intending to level off  1000  above or below
the flight crew's assigned altitude.
If a  TA  is generated:
The  PF  announces: " TCAS , I have control"
No evasive maneuver
should be initiated, only on the basis of a  TA .
If a  RA  is generated:
The flight crew must always
follow the  TCAS
RA  orders in the correct direction,
even:
If the  TCAS
RA  orders are in contradiction with the  ATC  instructions
At the maximum
ceiling altitude with "CLIMB, CLIMB" or "INCREASE CLIMB,
INCREASE CLIMB"  TCAS
RA  orders
If it results
in crossing the altitude of the intruder.
If the flight crew
does not follow a  RA , the flight crew should be aware that
the intruder may be  TCAS  equipped and may be maneuvering
toward the aircraft in response to a coordinated  RA . This
could compromize safe separation.
The  PF  disconnects the  AP , and smoothly and firmly follows the  VSI  green sector within  5 , and requests that both  FD s be disconnected.
Both  FD s must be
disconnected when  AP s are disconnected:
To ensure autothrust
speed mode
To avoid possible
confusion between  FD  bar orders and,  TCAS  aural
and  VSI  orders
The  PM  disconnects both  FD s, but will not try to see intruders
The  PF  will avoid excessive maneuvers, and keep the  V/S  outside
the red area of the  VSI  and within the green area. If necessary,
the  PF  must use the full speed range between Valpha max
and  VMAX
The  PM  must notify  ATC
The flight crew
should never maneuver in the opposite direction of the  RA , because
TCAS  maneuvers are coordinated.
If any CLIMB  RA  (For
more information  ) is
generated when the aircraft is in approach in  CONF  3 or
FULL:
The flight crew
perform a go-around and follow the  SRS  orders
The  AP  and  FD  can be kept engaged during the go-around
During the go-around,
the flight crew check that the vertical speed remains out of the red
area of the vertical speed scale, and take over if necessary. For
example, the flight crew should take over if the vertical speed gets
back to the red area of the vertical speed scale when the aircraft
intercepts the  FCU  selected altitude.
When clear of conflict:
The flight crew
must resume normal navigation, in accordance with  ATC  clearance,
and using the  AP / FD , as required.
TCAS
ALL is the default selection. The flight
crew may select another mode depending on the situation.  For more information  .
TA  shall be selected:
In the case
of engine failure, or
When the flight
is performed with landing gear down, or
During the approach,
in the case of:
Known nearby
traffic, which is in visual contact, or
Operations at
specific airports, and during specific procedures that an operator
identifies as having a significant potential for not wanted and not
appropriate  RA s, e.g. closely spaced parallel runways,
converging runways.
If a  TA  is generated:
The  PF  announces: " TCAS , I have control"
No evasive maneuver
should be initiated, only on the basis of a  TA .
If a  RA  is generated:
The flight crew must always
follow the  TCAS
RA  orders in the correct direction,
even:
If the  TCAS
RA  orders are in contradiction with the  ATC  instructions
At the maximum
ceiling altitude with "CLIMB, CLIMB" or "INCREASE CLIMB,
INCREASE CLIMB"  TCAS
RA  orders
If it results
in crossing the altitude of the intruder.
If the flight crew
does not follow a  RA , the flight crew should be aware that
the intruder may be  TCAS  equipped and may be maneuvering
toward the aircraft in response to a coordinated  RA . This
could compromize safe separation.
The  PF  disconnects the  AP , and smoothly and firmly follows the  VSI  green sector within  5 , and requests that both  FD s be disconnected
Both  FD s must be
disconnected when  AP s are disconnected:
To ensure autothrust
speed mode
To avoid possible
confusion between  FD  bar orders and,  TCAS  aural
and  VSI  orders.
The  PM  disconnects both  FD s, but will not try to see intruders
The  PF  will avoid excessive maneuvers, and keep the  V/S  outside
the red area of the  VSI  and within the green area. If necessary,
the  PF  must use the full speed range between Valpha max
and  VMAX
The  PM  must notify  ATC
The flight crew
should never maneuver in the opposite direction of the  RA , because  TCAS  maneuvers are coordinated
If any CLIMB  RA  (For
more information  ) is
generated when the aircraft is in approach in  CONF  3 or
FULL:
The flight crew
perform a go-around and follow the  SRS  orders
The  AP  and  FD  can be kept engaged during the go-around
During the
go-around, the flight crew check that the vertical speed remains out
of the red area of the vertical speed scale, and take over if necessary.
For example, the flight crew should take over if the vertical speed
gets back to the red area of the vertical speed scale when the aircraft
intercepts the  FCU  selected altitude.
When clear of conflict:
The flight crew
must resume normal navigation, in accordance with  ATC  clearance,
and using the  AP / FD , as required.
Secured and Transit Stop
The aircraft is:
in TRANSIT STOP
when the last check list performed by the flight crew is the PARKING  C/L
in SECURED STOP
when the last check list performed by the flight crew is the SECURING
THE AIRCRAFT  C/L
The flight crew performs only
the items indicated by an asterisk (*) in the Standard Operating Procedures
( SOP 's) when there is no flight crew change and after
a TRANSIT STOP.  Otherwise, the flight crew performs
all the items of the  SOP 's.
General
Introduction
Airbus normal checklists are of a "non-action"
type (i.e. all actions should be completed from memory before the
flight crew performs the checklist).
Checklist Start
The Pilot Flying ( PF ) requests
the normal checklist.
Checklist Actions
The checklist actions are referred to
as "challenge/response" type actions. The  PM  reads
the left part of the line, and the  PF  "responds"
to the "challenge" only after checking the current status
of the aircraft.
If the
current status of the aircraft does not correspond to the checklist
response, the  PF  takes corrective action before "responding"
to the "challenge". If corrective action is not possible,
then the  PF  must modify the response to reflect the real
situation (with a specific answer). When necessary, the other flight
crewmember crosschecks the validity of the response.
The challenger ( PM ) waits
for a response corresponding to the checklist, before validating the
item.
Checklist Complete
When the checklist is completed, the  PM  announces, for example: "LANDING CHECKLIST COMPLETE".
Securing the Aircraft Checklist
The Securing the Aircraft Checklist
is performed by  CM2  who performs both the challenge and
the response.
Objectives
The objectives of the preliminary
cockpit preparation are:
To ensure that
all safety checks are performed:
The  RCL  pb is pressed for at least  3  to display the cautions
and warnings from the previous flight.
The technical
logbook and  MEL  are checked at this stage.
To check the
liquid levels i.e. oil, hydraulic and oxygen pressure using
The  HYD  pb is pressed to check the hydraulic level
The  ENG  pb is pressed to check engine oil level ( )
The DOOR pb
is pressed, to check the oxygen pressure level
To check the
position of surface control levers e.g. slats/flaps, parking brake.
During the Preliminary Cockpit
Preparation, the flight crew must also review all  OEB s
applicable to the aircraft. The flight crew must pay a particular
attention to the red  OEB s, and more particularly to the
red  OEB s that must be applied before the  ECAM  procedure.
Oxygen
The  ECAM
DOOR/OXY  displays the oxygen pressure. When the oxygen pressure is below
a defined threshold, an amber half box highlights the value. This
advises the flight crew that the bottle should be refilled. The flight
crew should refer to the minimum flight crew oxygen pressure ( ). The prolonged dispatch of
the aircraft in such condition is not recommended.
Exterior Walkaround
Standard Operating Procedures
( SOP ) outline the various elements that the flight crew
must review in greater detail. The objectives of the exterior inspection
are:
To obtain a
global assessment of the aircraft status. Any missing parts or panels
will be checked against the Configuration Deviation List ( CDL ) for possible dispatch and any potential operational consequences.
To ensure that
main aircraft surfaces are in adequate position relative to surface
control levers.
To check that
there are no leaks e.g. engine drain mast, hydraulic lines.
To check the
status of the essential visible sensors i.e.  AOA , pitot
and static probes.
To observe any possible abnormalities
on the landing gear status:
Wheels and tires
status (cut, wear, cracks)
Safety pins
are removed
Brakes status
(Brake wear pin length with parking brake ON)
Length of oleo.
Any difference between the two main landing gears shall be reported.
To observe any possible abnormality
on the engines:
Fan blades,
turbine exhaust, engine cowl and pylon status
Access door
closed
Correct closure/latching
condition of the fan cowl doors.
Safety pins are removed .
Seating Position and Adjustment of Rudder Pedals
To achieve a correct seating
position, the aircraft is fitted with an eye-position indicator on
the centre windscreen post. The eye-position indicator has two balls
on it. When the balls are superimposed on each other, they indicate
that the pilot's eyes are in the correct position.
The flight crew should not sit too low, to avoid  increasing the
cockpit cut-off angle, therefore reducing the visual segment. During
Low Visibility Procedures (LVP), it is important that the pilot's
eyes are positioned correctly, in order to maximize the visual segment,
and consequently, increase the possibility of achieving the appropriate
visual reference for landing as early as possible.  After adjusting the seat, each pilot should adjust the outboard armrest,
so that the forearm rests comfortably on it, when holding the sidestick.
There should be no gaps between the pilot's forearm and the armrest.
The pilot's wrist should not be bent when holding the sidestick.
This ensures that the pilot can accomplish flight maneuvers by moving
the wrist instead of lifting the forearm from the armrest.
Symptoms of incorrect armrest adjustment include over-controlling,
and not being able to make small, precise inputs.
The flight crew must have their feet in a position so that full rudder
deflection combined with full braking, even differential, can be applied
instinctively and without delay.
The armrest and the rudder pedals have position indicators. These
positions should be noted and set accordingly for each flight.
FMGS Preparation
FMGS Programming
FMGS  programming involves
inserting navigation data, then performance data.
Boxed fields
must be filled
Blue fields
inform the crew that entry is permitted
Green fields
are used for  FMS  generated data, and cannot be changed
Magenta characters
identify limits (altitude, speed or time), that  FMS  will
attempt to meet
Yellow characters
indicate a temporary flight plan display
Amber characters
signify that the item being displayed is important and requires immediate
action
Small font signifies
that data is  FMS  computed
Large font signifies
manually entered data.
This sequence of entry is the most practical.
INIT B should not be filled immediately after INIT A, because the  FMGS  would start to compute  F-PLN  predictions. These
computations would slow down the entry procedure.
To obtain correct predictions,
the fields of the various pages must be completed correctly, with
available planned data for the flight:
DATA  The database validity,  NAVAID s and waypoints (possibly stored in previous flight),
and  PERF  FACTOR must be checked on the STATUS page.
INIT A  The INIT A page provides
access to aircraft current position. The flight crew will check that
it corresponds to the current aircraft position ( ).
Manual Position Initialization
of the  IRS :
The flight crew
will check or modify the  MCDU  coordinates for the  IRS  position initialization. The most appropriate coordinates
for the position initialization are the gate coordinates.
Then, the flight
crew will press the  ALIGN IRS  prompt.
When the flight crew enters
or modifies the origin airport (FROM) or the  CO RTE , the  MCDU
INIT  coordinates are reset to the Airport Reference
Point. The flight crew may manually modify these coordinates.
The history
wind is the vertical wind profile, that has been encountered during
the previous descent and should be entered at this stage if it is
representative of the vertical wind profile for the next flight.
F-PLN
The F-PLN A page is to be completed
thoroughly including:
The take-off
runway
SID
Altitude and
speed constraints
Correct transition
to the cruise waypoint
Intended step
climbs/descents, according to the Computerized Flight Plan (CFP).
If time permits,
the wind profile along the flight plan may be inserted using vertical
revision through wind prompt.  The flight crew should
also check the overall route distance (6th line of the F-PLN page),
versus CFP distance.
SEC F-PLN  The SEC F-PLN should
be used to consider an alternate runway for take-off, a return to
departure airfield or a routing to a take-off alternate.
RAD NAV
The RAD NAV page is
checked, and any required  NAVAID  should be manually entered
using ident. If a  NAVAID  is reported on  NOTAM  as unreliable or unserviceable, it must be deselected on the  MCDU  DATA/POSITION MONITOR/SEL NAVAID page.
INIT B
The flight crew:
Inserts the
expected  ZFWCG / ZFW , and block fuel to initialize
a  F-PLN  computation
Checks fuel
figures consistent with flight preparation fuel figures.
The flight
crew will update weight and  CG  on receipt of the load sheet.  The  FMS  uses the trip wind for the entire flight from origin to destination.
The trip wind is an average wind component that may be extracted from
the CFP. The trip wind facility is available if the wind profile has
not already been entered.  After engine start,
the INIT B page is no longer available. The flight crew should use
the FUEL PRED page for weight and fuel data insertion, if required.  The INIT B page should
not be completed immediately after INIT A, because the  FMGS  would begin to compute  F-PLN  predictions. This would
slow down the entry procedure.
PERF  The thrust reduction
altitude/acceleration altitude (THR RED/ACC) are set to default at  1500 , or at a value defined by airline policy. The THR RED/ACC altitudes
may be changed in the PERF TAKEOFF page, if required. The flight crew
should consider the applicable noise abatement procedure.
The engine-out acceleration
altitude must:
Be at least  400  above airport altitude
Ensure that
the net flight path is  35  above obstacles
Ensure that
the maximum time for takeoff thrust is not exceeded.
Therefore,
there are generally a minimum and a maximum one engine out acceleration
altitude values. The minimum value satisfies the first two criteria.
The maximum value satisfies the last one. Any value between those
two may be retained.  The one engine out
acceleration altitude is usually set to default at  1500
AGL  and will be updated as required.  The flight crew uses
the PERF CLB page to pre-select a speed. For example,  "Green
Dot" speed for a sharp turn after takeoff.
The flight
crew may also check on the PROG page the  CRZ
FL ,  MAX
REC
FL  and  OPT
FL .  When the
predictions are available, the crew may print the  PREFLIGHT
DATA . This print provides all the predictions which
may be used during the initial part of the flight.
FMGS CROSSCHECK
When the  PF  completes the  FMGS  preparation, the  PM  must
check the entries made by the  PF . The  PM  performs
this check via a check of the different  FMGS  pages, in
the same order as the  FMGS  preparation.
When the  PM  reviews the PERF
TAKEOFF page, the  PM  compares it with the takeoff performance
application of the  EFB  to crosscheck the performance data.
For more information on the content of a performance crosscheck,  .
Brake Check
Brake Check
When the aircraft starts to move, the  PF  should check the efficiency of the normal braking system
by gently pressing the brake pedals, to ensure that the aircraft slows
down.
Carbon Brake Wear
Carbon Brake Wear
Carbon brake wear depends on the number
of brake applications and on brake temperature. It does not depend
on the applied pressure, or the duration of the braking. The temperature
at which maximum brake wear occurs depends on the brake manufacturer.
Therefore, the only way the pilot can minimize brake wear is to reduce
the number of brake applications.
Taxi Speed and Braking
Taxi Speed and Braking
On long, straight taxiways, and with
no  ATC  or other ground traffic constraints, the  PF  should allow the aircraft to accelerate to  30 , and should then use one smooth brake application to decelerate
to  10 . The  PF  should avoid continuous brake applications.
The  GS  indication on the  ND  should be used to
assess taxi speed.
Brake Temperature
BRAKE TEMPERATURE
The maximum brake temperature limitation
for takeoff ensures that, in the case of a hydraulic leak, any hydraulic
fluid that touches the brake units does not ignite in the wheel well
after the landing gear retraction.
Braking Anomalies
Braking Anomalies
If the  ACCU
PRESS  drops below  1500 , the flight crew should be aware that the
Parking Brake can, quite suddenly, become less efficient.  If the
flight crew encounters any braking problems during taxi, they should
set the  A/SKID & N/W STRG  to OFF. They should not apply
pressure to the pedals while setting the  A/SKID & N/W STRG  to OFF. Then, the  PF  should refer to the triple brake
indicator and modulate the pressure as necessary.
Brake Fans
Brake Fans
Brake fans cool the brakes, and the brake
temperature sensor. Therefore, when the brake fans are running, the
indicated brake temperature will be significantly lower than the indicated
brake temperature when the brake fans are off.  Therefore, as soon as the brake fans
are switched on, the indicated brake temperature decreases almost
instantaneously. On the other hand, when the brake fans are switched
off, it will take several minutes for the indicated brake temperature
to increase and match the real brake temperature.  When the fans are running, the difference
between the indicated and the actual brake temperature can range from  50  (when the actual brake temperature is  100 ) to  150  (when
the actual brake temperature is  300 ).
Therefore, before takeoff, if the fans are running, the flight crew
should refer to the indicated brake temperature. When the indicated
brake temperature is above  150 ,
takeoff must be delayed.
Brake
fans should not be used during takeoff, in order to avoid Foreign
Object Damage to fans and brakes.
Flight Controls
At a convenient stage,  before
or during taxi, and before arming the autobrake, the  PF  silently applies full longitudinal and lateral sidestick deflection.
On the  F/CTL  page, the  PM  checks and calls out
full travel of elevators and ailerons, and correct deflection and
retraction of spoilers. As each full travel/neutral position is reached,
the  PM  calls out:
"Full up,
full down, neutral"
"Full left,
full right, neutral"
The  PF  silently checks
that the  PM  calls are in accordance with the sidestick
order. The  PF  then presses the PEDAL  DISC  pb
on the nose wheel tiller and silently applies full left and full right
rudder and then returns the rudder to neutral. The  PM  follows
on the rudder pedals and, when each full travel/neutral position is
reached, calls out:
"Full left,
full right, neutral"
Full control input must be held
for sufficient time for full travel to be reached and indicated on  F/CTL  page.
The  PM  then applies
full longitudinal and lateral sidestick deflection, and on the  F/CTL  page, silently checks full travel and correct sense of
all elevators and ailerons, and correct deflection and retraction
of all spoilers.  If this check is carried out
during taxiing, it is essential that the  PF  remains head-up
throughout the procedure.
Thrust Setting
The Thrust Setting procedure ensures
that all engines will accelerate similarly. If not properly applied,
this may lead to asymmetrical thrust increase, and, consequently,
to severe directional control problem.  If the thrust levers are not set to the
proper take-off detent, e.g.  FLX  instead of  TOGA , an alert triggers on the  ECAM .  At any time during FLEX takeoff, the flight crew may set the thrust
levers to  TOGA .
Thrust Setting
The Thrust Setting procedure ensures
that all engines will accelerate similarly. If not properly applied,
this may lead to asymmetrical thrust increase, and, consequently,
to severe directional control problem.  The Electronic Engine Control ( EEC ) computer prevents the engine stabilizing between an approximate
range of 60 to  74
N1 , in order to protect
against fan flutter. This range is called the Keep-Out-Zone, and the
flight crew may notice a non-linear thrust response to thrust lever
movement. If one lever is moved out of the Keep-Out-Zone before the
other, a very slow movement of the levers may lead to asymmetric engine
acceleration.  If the thrust levers are not set to the
proper take-off detent, e.g.  FLX  instead of  TOGA , an alert triggers on the  ECAM .  At any time during FLEX takeoff,
the flight crew may set the thrust levers to  TOGA .
Takeoff Roll
When the thrust levers are set, the  PF  announces the indications on the  FMA . The  PM  must check that the thrust is set by  80  and must announce "Thrust Set".
The Captain
must keep their hand on the thrust levers when the thrust levers are
set to  TOGA / FLX  notch and until  V1 .
During
the take-off roll, the PM monitors the  PFD  and  ENG  indications to ensure early detection and appropriate decision making
in the case of malfunction.  By scanning the airspeed indications,
the  PM  will detect any inconsistent airspeed indications
between instruments or absence of airspeed indications.  On a normal
takeoff, to counteract the pitch up moment during thrust application,
the  PF  should apply half forward or full forward sidestick
(depending on wind conditions) at the start of the takeoff roll until
reaching  80 . At this point, the input should be gradually
reduced to be zero by  100 .
The  PF  should use pedals to keep the aircraft straight. The nosewheel
steering authority decreases at a pre-determined rate as the groundspeed
increases (no more efficiency at  130 ) and the rudder
becomes more effective. The use of the tiller is not recommended during
takeoff roll, because of its high efficiency, which might lead to
aircraft overreaction.
For crosswind takeoffs, routine use of into wind aileron is not necessary.
In strong crosswind conditions, small lateral stick input may be used
to maintain wings level, if deemed necessary due to into wind wing
reaction, but avoid using large deflections, resulting in excessive
spoiler deployment which increase the aircraft tendency to turn into
the wind (due to high weight on wheels on the spoiler extended side),
reduces lift and increases drag. Spoiler deflection becomes significant
with more than a third  sidestick deflection.
In the event of unexpected lateral
disturbance during takeoff roll, the flight crew should use the rudder
as for counteracting any lateral disturbance. Indeed, excessive rudder
input may increase the magnitude of the lateral disturbance. The flight
crew may be surprised during takeoff roll by unexpected lateral disturbance
in conditions such as:
The presence
of thermals or thermal vortices that often develop in hot and dry
countries.  Sometimes, these thermal streams get stronger, and create
small whirlwinds referred to as "dust devils", or
The jet blast
of another aircraft close to the active runway, or
The wind that
accelerates between two buildings by "venturi" effect.
As the aircraft lifts off, any
lateral stick input applied will result in a roll rate demand, making
aircraft lateral control more difficult. Wings must be level.  In case of low visibility takeoff, visual cues are primary means
to track the runway centerline. The  PFD  yaw bar provides
an assistance in case of expected fog patches if  ILS  available.
Rotation
Rotation Technique
The rotation
technique is similar on all fly-by-wire aircraft.  To initiate the rotation, the flight
crew performs a positive backward stick input. When the rotation is
initiated, the flight crew achieves a rotation rate of approximately  3  resulting in a continuous pitch increase.  During the rotation, the aircraft liftoff
occurs at approximately  10  of pitch, typically around 4
to  5  after the initiation of the rotation. After the
liftoff, the  PF  targets the required pitch attitude.  To monitor the rotation, the  PF  uses the outside visual references. Once airborne, the  PF  controls the pitch attitude target on the  PFD .
A slow rotation rate or an under
rotation (below takeoff pitch target) has an impact on takeoff performance
(refer to below graphic):
The takeoff
run and the takeoff distance increase
The obstacle
clearance after takeoff decreases.
Performance impacts for a rotation rate of approximately  2
Tail Strike Avoidance
INTRODUCTION
If tailstrike is not a concern
for the A318, the importance of this subject increases as fuselage
length increases. Therefore, it is particularly important for  A321
operators.  Tail strikes can cause extensive
structural damage, which can jeopardize the flight and lead to heavy
maintenance action.  They most often occur in such adverse conditions
as crosswind, turbulence, windshear, etc.
MAIN FACTORS
EARLY ROTATION
Early rotation occurs when the
flight crew initiates the rotation below the appropriate  VR . The possible reasons for this are:
The computed  VR  is incorrect for the aircraft weight or flap configuration
The  PF  commands the rotation below  VR  because of gusts, windshear
or an obstacle on the runway
The following
factors or a combination of these factors may also lead to an aircraft
auto rotation before  VR :
A bumpy runway
A sudden release
of forward sidestick input
The use of  TOGA  thrust
An aircraft
not correctly trimmed.
In this
case the pilot will have to counteract this auto rotation until  VR  is reached and should be cautious not to overreact.
Whatever
the cause of the early rotation, the result is an increased pitch
attitude at liftoff, and therefore, a reduced tail clearance.
ROTATION TECHNIQUE
For more information on the rotation
technique recommendations,  .  An abrupt
increase of rotation rate close to liftoff might result in a tail
strike.  If the established pitch rate
is not satisfactory, the  PF  must correct it as soon as
detected.
CONFIGURATION  (not applicable to A318)
When performance is limiting
the takeoff weight, the flight crew uses  TOGA  thrust and
selects the configuration that provides the highest takeoff weight.  When the actual takeoff weight is lower
than the permissible one, the flight crew uses FLEX TO thrust. For
a given aircraft weight, a variety of flap configurations are possible.
Usually, the flight crew selects the configuration that provides the
maximum  FLEX  temperature. This is done to extend the engine
life. The first degrees of flexible thrust have an impact on maintenance
costs about 5 times higher than the last one.  The configuration that provides
the maximum  FLEX  temperature varies with the runway length.  On short runways,  CONF  3 usually
provides the highest  FLEX  temperature, and the tail clearance
at liftoff does not depend on the configuration.
On medium or long runways, the second
segment limitation becomes the limiting factor, and  CONF  2 or  CONF  1+F becomes the optimum configuration, in term
of  FLEX  temperature. In these cases, the tail clearance
at liftoff depends on the configuration. The highest flap configuration
provides the highest tail strike margin.
TAKEOFF PITCH TRIM SETTING
The main purpose of the pitch trim setting
for takeoff is to provide consistent rotation characteristics. Takeoff
pitch trim is set manually via the pitch trim wheel.  The aircraft performs a safe takeoff,
provided that the pitch trim setting is within the green band on the
pitch trim wheel.
However, the pitch trim setting
significantly affects the aircraft behaviour during rotation:
With a forward  CG  and the pitch trim set to the nose-down limit, the  PF  will feel an aircraft "heavy to rotate" and aircraft
rotation will be very slow in response to the normal takeoff stick
input
With an aft  CG  and the pitch trim set to the nose-up limit, the pilots
will most probably have to counteract an early autorotation until  VR  is reached.
In either
case the pilot may have to modify their normal control input in order
to achieve the desired rotation rate, but should be cautious not to
overreact.
CROSSWIND TAKEOFF
In the TAKEOFF ROLL paragraph the  PF  should avoid using large deflection, which results in excessive
spoiler extension. A direct effect of the reduction in lift due to
the extension of the spoilers on one wing will be a reduction in tail
clearance and an increased risk of tail strike.
OLEO INFLATION
The correct extension of the
main landing gear shock absorber (and thus the nominal increase in
tail clearance during the rotation) relies on the correct inflation
of the oleos.
ACTION IN CASE OF TAIL STRIKE
If a tail strike occurs at takeoff, flight
at altitude requiring a pressurized cabin must be avoided and a return
to the departure airport should be performed for damage assessment.
Slats/Flaps Retraction at Heavy Weight
If take-off is carried out at
heavy weight, two protections may intervene:
The Automatic
Retraction System ( ARS )
The Alpha Lock
function.
THE AUTOMATIC RETRACTION SYSTEM
While in  CONF  1+F and  IAS  reaches  210  ( VFE
CONF  1+F is  215  or  225  on some A321,  ), the  ARS  is activated. The  ARS  automatically retracts flaps to  0 . The  VFE  displayed on the  PFD  change from  VFE
CONF  1+F to  VFE
CONF  1. As the aircraft
accelerates above  S  speed, the flap lever can be selected
to 0. If  IAS  decreases below  VFE
CONF  1+F, the flaps will not extend back to 1+F.
THE ALPHA LOCK FUNCTION
The slats alpha/speed lock function will
prevent slat retraction at high  AOA  or low speed at the
moment the flap lever is moved from Flaps 1 to Flaps 0.  A LOCK  pulses above the  E/WD  Slat
indication. The inhibition is removed and the slats retract when both
alpha and speed fall within normal values. This is a normal situation
for take-off at heavy weight. If Alpha lock function is triggered,
the crew will continue the scheduled acceleration, allowing further
slats retraction.
Overspeed Warning During Slats/Flaps Transition
During the Slats/Flaps transition,
the flight crew must respect the VMAX displayed on the PFD. The VMAX
value displayed on the PFD speed scale is based on the Slats/Flaps
control lever position.  The OVERSPEED WARNING is based
on the actual Slats/Flaps surface position. Therefore, during Slats/Flaps
transition, the dynamic acceleration of the airplane may lead to a
temporary OVERSPEED WARNING even if the current speed is out of the
red and black strip displayed on the PFD. In this situation, there
are no operational consequences. The flight crew must report any type
of overspeed event.
Low Altitude Level Off
If the aircraft is required
to level off below the acceleration altitude,  ALT*  engages
and target speed goes to initial climb speed.  The "LVR CLB"
message flashes on the  FMA . In this case, the crew should
expect a faster than normal acceleration, and be prepared to retract
the flaps and slats promptly.
Noise Abatement Departure Procedure
INTRODUCTION
The  NADP  is an operational
procedure for the climb phase to provide noise levels reduction to
areas close to the airport or distant from the airport. The procedure
can be performed by two different methods:
NADP 1: Intends
to reduce noise levels close to the airport
NADP 2: Intends
to reduce noise levels in areas distant from the airport.
How to apply this procedure?
For both methods, the flight crew must initiate the thrust reduction
after the required minimum altitude. The flight crew should not apply  NADP  during significant turbulence or windshear.
In addition, the operators
can develop alternate operator-specific procedures and optimize  THR RED / ACC ALT  considering all constraints.  The operators must
comply with local noise procedures.
Climb Modes
The  AP / FD  climb modes may be either:
Managed, or
Selected.
MANAGED
The managed  AP / FD  mode in climb is  CLB . Its use is recommended
as long as the aircraft is cleared along the  F-PLN .
SELECTED
The selected  AP / FD  modes in climb are  OP CLB ,  V/S  and  EXPED .
OP CLB  is to be used
if  ATC  gives radar vector or clears the aircraft direct
to a given  FL  without any climb constraints.  In areas of high traffic density, low values of vertical speed will
reduce the possibility of nuisance  TCAS  warnings.
If the crew selects a high  V/S , it may happen that the
aircraft is unable to climb with this high  V/S  and to maintain
the target speed with Max Climb thrust, for performance reasons. In
that case, the  AP / FD  will guide to the target  V/S , and the  A/THR  will command up to Max Climb
thrust, in order to try to keep the target speed; but the aircraft
will decelerate and its speed might reach  VLS . When  VLS  is reached the  AP  will pitch the aircraft down
so as to fly a  V/S , which allows maintaining  VLS . A triple click is generated.  Whenever  V/S  is used,
pilots should pay particular attention to the speed trend as  V/S  takes precedence over speed requirements.  The  EXPED mode  is used to climb with
maximum vertical gradient i.e. the target speed becomes green dot.
Its use should be avoided above  250 .
The crew should be aware that altitude constraints in the MCDU F-PLN
page are observed only when the climb is managed, i.e. when  CLB  is displayed on the  FMA . Any other vertical mode will
disregard any altitude constraints.
A likely scenario would be, when the  FCU  altitude is set
above an altitude constraint and the pilot selects  V/S  when
below that constraint to avoid a potential  TCAS
TA . In this case, the aircraft will disregard the altitude constraint.
Speed Considerations
The climb speed may be either:
Managed, or
Selected.
MANAGED
The managed climb speed, computed
by the FMGS, provides the most economical climb profile as it takes
into account weight, actual and predicted winds,  ISA  deviation
and Cost Index ( CI ). The managed climb speed also takes
into account any speed constraints, e.g. the default speed limit which
is  250  up to  10000 .
SELECTED
If necessary, the climb speed
can be either pre-selected on ground prior to take-off on the MCDU
PERF CLIMB page or selected on the  FCU  as required.  On ground, prior take-off, speed target at acceleration altitude
can be pre-selected on the MCDU PERF CLIMB page. It is to be used
when the  F-PLN  has a sharp turn after take-off, when high
angle of climb is required or for  ATC  clearance compliance.  Once airborne, the speed can be selected on  FCU  to achieve
the maximum rate of climb or the maximum gradient of climb.
The speed to achieve the maximum rate of climb, i.e. to reach a given
altitude in the shortest time, lies between  ECON  climb
speed and green dot. As there is no indication of this speed on the  PFD , a good rule of thumb is to use turbulence speed to achieve
maximum rate.  The speed to achieve the maximum
gradient of climb, i.e. to reach a given altitude in a shortest distance,
is green dot. The MCDU PERF CLB page displays the time and distance
required to achieve the selected altitude by climbing at green dot
speed. Avoid reducing to green dot at high altitude, particularly
at heavy weight, as it can take a long time to accelerate to  ECON  mach.  Pilots should be aware that
it is possible to select and fly a speed below green dot but there
would be no operational benefit in doing this.
When selected speed is used, the predictions on the  F-PLN  page assume the selected speed is kept till the next planned speed
modification, e.g.  250  / 10000 , where managed
speed is supposed to be resumed. Consequently, the  FM  predictions
remain meaningful.  When  IAS  is selected
in lower altitude, there is an automatic change to Mach at a specific
crossover altitude.  Finally, as selected speed does
not provide the optimum climb profile, it should only be used when
operationally required, e.g.  ATC  constraint or weather.
Vertical Performance Predictions
The MCDU PROG page provides
the crew with the  MAX  REC  ALT  and with the OPT
ALT information (See cruise section). This information is to be used
to rapidly answer to  ATC : "CAN YOU CLIMB TO  FL  XXX?"  The MCDU PERF CLB page provides
predictions to a given  FL  in terms of time and distance
assuming  CLB  mode. This  FL  is defaulted to the  FCU  target altitude or it may be manually inserted. The level
arrow on the  ND  assumes the current  AP  engaged
mode. This information is to be used to rapidly answer to  ATC : "CAN YOU MAKE  FL  XXX by ZZZ waypoint?". The
crew will use a  PD  (Place/Distance), i.e. ZZZ,-10 waypoint
if the question is "CAN YOU MAKE  FL  XXX ,  10  before ZZZ point?"
Lateral Navigation
If the aircraft is following
the programmed  SID , the  AP / FD  should
be in  NAV . If  ATC  vectors the aircraft,  HDG  will be used until a time when clearance is given to either
resume the  SID  or track direct to a specific waypoint.
In either case, the crew must ensure that the waypoints are properly
sequenced.  The crew should keep in mind
that the use of  HDG  mode e.g. following  ATC  radar
vectors, will revert  CLB  to  OP CLB  and any altitude
constraints in the MCDU F-PLN page will not be observed unless they
are selected on the  FCU .
FMS Use
Step Climb
If there
is a STEP in the  F-PLN , the crew will ensure that the wind
is properly set at the first waypoint beyond the step (D on the following
example) at both initial  FL  and step  FL .
If at D waypoint, the  CFP  provides
the wind at  350  but not at  310 , it is recommended
to insert the same wind at  310  as the one at  350 . This is due to wind propagation rules, which might affect the optimum  FL  computation.
Cost Index
The Cost Index ( CI ) is used to take into account the relationship between fuel and
time related costs in order to minimize the trip cost. The  CI  is calculated by the airline for each sector. From an operational
point of view, the  CI  affects the speeds ( ECON  SPEED/MACH) and cruise altitude (OPT ALT). CI=0 corresponds to maximum
range whereas the CI=999 corresponds to minimum time.
The  CI  is a strategic parameter which applies to the whole
flight. However, the  CI  can be modified by the crew in
flight for valid strategic operational reasons. For example, if the
crew needs to reduce the speed for the entire flight to comply with
curfew requirements or fuel management requirements (XTRA gets close
to 0), then it is appropriate to reduce the  CI .
The SEC F-PLN can be used to check the predictions associated with
new  CI . If they are satisfactory, the crew will then modify
the  CI  in the primary  F-PLN . However, the crew
should be aware that any modification of the  CI  would affect
trip cost.
Speed Considerations
The cruise speed may be either:
Managed, or
Selected.
MANAGED
When the cruise altitude is
reached, the  A/THR  operates in SPEED/MACH mode. The optimum
cruise Mach number is automatically targeted. Its value depends on:
CI
Cruise flight
level
Temperature
deviation
Weight
Headwind component.
The crew should be aware that
the optimum Mach number will vary according to the above mentioned
parameters, e.g. it will increase with an increasing headwind, e.g.  +50  head wind equates to  +0.01 .
Should  ATC  require a specific time over a waypoint, the
crew can perform a vertical revision on that waypoint and enter a
time constraint. The managed Mach number would be modified accordingly
to achieve this constraint. If the constraint can be met within a
tolerance, a magenta asterix will be displayed on the  MCDU ; if the constraint cannot be met, an amber asterix will be displayed.
Once the constrained waypoint is sequenced, the  ECON  Mach
is resumed.
SELECTED
Should  ATC  require
a specific cruise speed or turbulence penetration is required, the
pilot must select the cruise speed on the  FCU .  FMS  predictions are updated accordingly until reaching either the next
step climb or top of descent, where the programmed speeds apply again.
The  FMS  predictions are therefore realistic.
At high altitude, the speed should not be reduced below GREEN DOT
as this may create a situation where it is impossible to maintain
speed and/or altitude as the increased drag may exceed the available
thrust.
Speed Decay During Cruise
Factors that cause a speed decay during cruise
On aircraft with no failure, and the  A/THR  engaged or the  MAX
CLB  thrust applied
in manual mode, a continuous speed decay during cruise phase may be
due to:
A large and
continuous increase in tailwind or decrease in headwind, in addition
to an increase in the  OAT , that results in a decrease of
the  REC
MAX
FL  ( ), or
A large downdraft,
when the flight crew flies (parallel and) downwind in a mountainous
area, due to orographic waves. The downdraft may have a negative vertical
speed of more than  500 . Therefore, if the aircraft
is in a downdraft, the flight crew must climb in order to maintain
altitude, and the pitch angle and the thrust value increase. Without
sufficient thrust margin, the flight crew may notice that aircraft
speed decays, but the  REC
MAX
FL  is
not modified.
Thrust margin and external parameters
The flight crew must be aware that at
high altitude, the thrust margin (difference between the thrust in
use and the maximum available thrust) is limited. The maximum available
thrust decreases when there is an increase in altitude and/or outside
temperature. In some conditions,  MCT  may be the maximum
available thrust. In such a situation, it is useless to put the thrust
levers in the TOGA detent to try to increase the thrust.
The  REC
MAX
FL  indicated in the PROG page of the  MCDU  decreases
when the  OAT  increases. The nearer the aircraft is to the  REC
MAX
FL , the smaller the thrust margin.
Green Dot speed as a reference
The optimum lift/drag speed
is the  GD  speed. The  GD  speed uses the lowest
quantity of thrust necessary to maintain the required/desired altitude.
When the aircraft speed is below  GD  speed, any decrease
in speed requires an increase in thrust in order to maintain the required/desired
altitude. Therefore, if aircraft speed is below  GD  speed
and continues to decrease, even with the maximum available thrust
in use, if the flight crew maintains the current altitude, the angle
of attack will further increase.
Operational Recommendation
The nearer the aircraft is to the  REC
MAX
FL , the smaller is the thrust
margin that the flight crew has to manage a speed decay during cruise.
If the aircraft speed goes below  GD  speed, with the maximum available thrust in use, the only
way for the flight crew to avoid an increase in the angle of attack
is to descend.
With the  A/THR  on,
the selection of the  OP DES  mode reduces the thrust to idle, and therefore increases the time
to recover the energy.
As a result, the flight crew can recover normal aircraft speed and
the normal thrust margin.
Altitude Considerations
The MCDU PROG page displays:
REC MAX FL
OPT FL.
REC MAX FL
REC MAX FL reflects the present
engine and wing performance and does not take into account the cost
aspect. It provides a  0.3 buffet margin. If the crew inserts
a  FL  higher than REC  MAX  into the  MCDU , it will be accepted only if it provides a buffet margin greater
than  0.2 . Otherwise, it will be rejected and the message
"CRZ ABOVE MAX FL" will appear on the  MCDU  scratchpad.
This message may also be triggered in case of temperature increase
leading the aircraft to fly above the REC MAX FL. Unless there are
overriding operational considerations, e.g. either to accept a cruise  FL  higher than REC  MAX  or to be held significantly
lower for a long period, REC  MAX  should be considered as
the upper cruise limit.
OPT FL
The  OPT
FL  displayed
on the  MCDU  is the cruise altitude for minimum cost when  ECON  MACH is flown and should be followed whenever possible.
It is important to note that the  OPT
FL  displayed
on the  PROG  page is meaningful only if the wind and temperature
profile has been accurately entered. The flight crew should be aware
that flying at a  FL  different from the  OPT
FL  can have an adverse effect on the trip cost.
For each Mach number, there will be a
different  OPT
FL . If an  FMGS  failure
occurs, the flight crew should refer to the in-flight performance
application of the  EFB  in order to determine the  OPT
FL .
Step Climb
From a cost point of view, it is better
to climb to a higher cruise altitude when aircraft weight permits,
because the optimum altitude increases when fuel is consumed during
the flight. This technique is referred to as a Step Climb.  The flight crew can plan the step climbs
at waypoints, or the  FMS  can compute the optimum step points.
In order to determine the optimum location of the next  FL  change, the flight crew uses the OPTIMUM STEP POINT function on
the MCDU STEP ALTS page which is either accessed from the MCDU F-PLN/VERT
REV page or the MCDU PERF CRZ page. If predictions are satisfactory
in terms of time and fuel saving, the flight crew inserts the optimum
step point in the temporary flight plan provided it is compatible
with the  ATC . The inserted step climb is set as a geographic
waypoint. The flight crew can update the step point by pressing the
UPDATE* button on the STEP ALTS page.  The OPT STEP computation is accurate
if the flight crew accurately entered the vertical wind profile. For
more information,
FMS
Use  .  It can be advantageous to request an initial cruise altitude above
the  OPT
FL , if altitude changes are difficult
to obtain on specific routes. This minimizes the possibility of being
held at a low altitude and in high fuel consumption condition for
long periods of time. The flight crew should compare the requested/cleared
cruise altitude to the REC MAX  FL . Before the flight crew
accepts an altitude above the  OPT
FL , they should
determine if this  FL  will remain acceptable considering
the projected flight conditions such as turbulence, standing waves
or temperature changes.  The following graph indicates
the two step climb strategies with respect to the  OPT
FL  and the REC MAX  FL . Strategy 1 provides the best
trip cost.
OPT FL Follow Up
Fuel Temperature
Fuel freeze refers to the formation
of wax crystals suspended in the fuel, which can accumulate when fuel
temperature is below the freeze point ( -47  for
jet A1) and can prevent proper fuel feed to the engines.  During normal operations, fuel temperature rarely decreases to the
point that it becomes limiting. However, extended cruise operations
increase the potential for fuel temperatures to reach the freeze point.
Fuel temperature will slowly reduce towards  TAT .  The rate
of cooling of fuel can be expected to be in the order of  3  per hour with a maximum of  12  per hour in the most extreme conditions.
If fuel temperature approaches
the minimum allowed, the  ECAM  outputs a caution.  Consideration
should be given to achieving a higher  TAT :
Descending or
diverting to a warmer air mass may be considered. Below the tropopause,
a  4000  descent gives a  7  increase
in  TAT . In severe cases, a descent to as low as  25000  may be required.
Increasing Mach
number will also increase  TAT . An increase of  0.01  produces approximately  0.7  increase
in  TAT .
In either case, up to  1  may be required for fuel temperature to stabilise. The
crew should consider the fuel penalty associated with either of these
actions.
Approach Preparation
The flight crew should obtain the latest
information for landing (weather, runway state, braking action, etc.)
at the latest  15  prior to descent.
The flight crew should check the landing performance ( VAPP  and landing distance) and the  PF  should program the  FMGS  for the descent and arrival. The fuel predictions are
accurate if the  F-PLN  is correctly entered in terms of
arrival, go-around and alternate routing.
The  PF  should program the  FMGS  applying the
following sequence:
Computation Principles
TOD  and Profile Computation
The  FMGS  calculates the Top
Of Descent point ( TOD ) backwards from a position  1000  on the final approach with speed at  VAPP . It takes into
account any descent speed and altitude constraints and assumes managed
speed is used.  The first segment of the descent will always be idle
segment until the first altitude constraint is reached. Subsequent
segments will be "geometric", i.e. the descent will be flown
at a specific angle, taking into account any subsequent constraints.
If the  STAR  includes a holding pattern, it is not considered
for  TOD  or fuel computation.  The  TOD  is displayed
on the  ND  track as a white symbol:
The idle segment assumes a given managed speed flown with idle thrust
plus a small amount of thrust. This gives some flexibility to keep
the aircraft on the descent path if engine anti-ice is used or if
winds vary.
During idle segment, the  A/THR  commands  THR  IDLE or depending on  FMGS  standard, MACH/SPEED.  During
geometric segment, the  A/THR  commands MACH/SPEED.  With Descent Profile Optimization
option (  DPO  ), the idle segment
assumes a given managed speed flown at idle thrust. This gives less
flexibility to keep the aircraft on the descent path if engine anti-ice
is used or if winds vary. In case of use of engine anti-ice or increased
tailwind, the use of speed brakes may be required to go back on the
descent path.  The  TOD  computed
by the  FMS  is quite reliable provided the flight plan is
properly documented down to the approach.
Managed Descent Speed Profile
The managed speed is equal to:
The  ECON  speed (which may have been modified by the crew on the  PERF
DES  page before entering DESCENT phase or, during DESCENT
phase depending on  FMGS  standard), or
The speed constraint
or limit when applicable.
Computation Principles
T/D and Profile Computation
The  FMGS  calculates the  T/D  point backwards from a position  1000  on the final
approach with speed at  VAPP . It takes into account any
descent speed and altitude constraints and assumes managed speed is
used. The descent path is computed as an idle segment.  If the  STAR  includes a holding
pattern, it is not considered for  T/D  or fuel computation.
This  T/D  is displayed on the  ND  track as a white
symbol:
During the descent, the  A/THR  commands idle thrust.  In case
of use of engine anti-ice and/or increased tailwind, the use of speed
brakes may be required to control the speed of the aircraft.  The  T/D  computed by the  FMS  is reliable provided the flight plan is properly documented
down to the approach.
Managed Descent Speed Profile
The managed speed is equal to:
The  ECON  speed (which may have been modified by the flight crew on the PERF
DES page before entering DESCENT phase or, during DESCENT phase),
or
The speed constraint
or limit when applicable.
Guidance and Monitoring
Introduction
To carry out the descent, the crew can
use either the managed descent mode ( DES ) or the selected
descent modes ( OP DES  or  V/S ). Both descent
modes can be flown either with selected speed or managed speed.  The modes and monitoring means are actually linked.
The  managed
DES
mode  guides the aircraft along the  FMS  pre-computed descent profile, as long as it flies along the lateral  F-PLN : i.e.  DES  mode is available if  NAV  is engaged. As a general rule when  DES  mode is used,
the descent is monitored using:
The  VDEV  called "yoyo" on the  PFD  and depending on the  FMGS  standard the associated Latch symbol, and
The  VDEV  digital value on the  FMS
PROG  page, and
The level arrow
on the  ND .
The  selected
OP DES
or
V/S
modes  are used when  HDG  is selected
or when  ALT
CSTR  may be disregarded or for various
tactical purposes. As a general rule when  OP DES  or  V/S  modes are used, the descent is monitored using the Energy
Circle, (displayed if  HDG  or  TRK  modes and indicating
the required distance to descend, decelerate and land from present
position) and the level arrow on the  ND . When the aircraft
is not far away from the lateral  F-PLN  (small  XTK ), the yoyo on  PFD  is also a good indicator.
Managed Descent Mode
The managed descent profile
from high altitude is approximately  2.5 .  As an estimation of the distance to touchdown
is required to enable descent profile monitoring, it is important
to ensure that the  MCDU
F-PLN  plan page reflects
the expected approach routing.  Any gross errors noted in the descent
profile are usually a result of incorrect routing entered in the  MCDU  or non-sequencing of  F-PLN  waypoints, giving
a false distance to touchdown.  An accurate WIND and  TEMP  data insertion on the associated  FMS  pages will lead to an accurate  DES  profile computation
and following from  FMS .
Descent Initiation
To initiate a managed descent,
the pilot will set the  ATC  cleared altitude on the  FCU  and push the  ALT  selector.  DES  mode
engages and is annunciated on the  FMA . If an early descent
were required by  ATC ,  DES  mode would give  1000  rate of descent, until regaining the computed profile.
To avoid overshooting the computed descent
path, it is preferable to push the  FCU
ALT  selector
a few miles prior to the calculated  TOD . This method will
ensure a controlled entry into the descent and is particularly useful
in situations of high cruise Mach number or strong upper winds.
If the descent is delayed, a "DECELERATE"
or " T/D  REACHED" message appears in white on
the  PFD  and in amber on the  MCDU .  Speed should
be reduced towards green dot, and when cleared for descent, the pilot
will push for  DES  and push for managed speed. The speed
reduction prior to descent will enable the aircraft to recover the
computed profile more quickly as it accelerates to the managed descent
speed.
Descent Profile
When  DES  with managed speed
is engaged, the  AP / FD  guides the aircraft along
the pre-computed descent path determined by a number of factors such
as altitude constraints, wind and descent speed. However, as the actual
conditions may differ from those planned, the  DES  mode
operates within a speed range which can go up to VMO- 5  as upper limit and MANAGED  SPD - 20  as lower limit
(limited by  vls ). Depending on the  FMGS  standard
and aircraft position related to the vertical profile, the speed range
may not be displayed.
Managed Descent: Speed Target Range Principle
If the aircraft gets high on the computed descent path:
The speed will
increase towards the upper limit of the speed range, to keep the aircraft
on the path with IDLE thrust.
If the speed
reaches the upper limit,  THR  IDLE is maintained, but the
autopilot does not allow the speed to increase any more, thus the  VDEV  will slowly increase.
A path intercept
point, which assumes  half speedbrake extension,  will be displayed
on the  ND  descent track.
If speed brakes
are not extended, the intercept point will move forward. If it gets
close to an altitude-constrained waypoint, then a message "AIR
BRAKES" or "MORE DRAG", depending of the  FMGS  standard, will be displayed on the  PFD  and  MCDU .
This technique allows an altitude constraint to be matched with minimum
use of speedbrakes.  When regaining the descent profile, the
speedbrakes should be retracted to prevent the  A/THR  applying
thrust against speedbrakes.  If the speedbrakes are not retracted,
the " SPD
BRK " message on the  ECAM  memo becomes amber.
A/C  Above Descent Path
If the aircraft gets low on the computed descent path:
The speed will decrease towards the lower limit of the speed range
with idle thrust. When the lower speed limit is reached the  A/THR  will revert to SPEED/MACH mode and apply thrust to maintain the
descent path at this lower speed. The path intercept point will be
displayed on the  ND , to indicate where the descent profile
will be regained.
A/C  Below Descent Path
If selected speed is used:
The descent profile remains unchanged. As the selected speed may
differ from the speed taken into account for pre-computed descent
profile and speed deviation range does not apply, the aircraft may
deviate from the descent profile e.g. if the pilot selects  275  with a pre-computed descent profile assuming managed speed  300 ,  VDEV  will increase.
Selected Descent
There are 3 modes for flying a selected
descent, namely  OP DES ,  V/S  /  FPA  and
EXP
DES  .
These modes will be used for pilot tactical interventions.
V/S  /  FPA  mode
is automatically selected when  HDG  or  TRK  mode
is selected by the pilot, while in  DES  mode. Furthermore,
in  HDG  or  TRK  mode, only  OP DES ,  V/S  /  FPA  and
EXP
DES
modes are available for descent.  To initiate a selected descent, the pilot
should set the  ATC  cleared altitude on the  FCU  and pull the  ALT  selector.  OP DES  mode engages
and is annunciated on the  FMA . In  OP DES  mode,
the  A/THR  commands  THR  IDLE and the speed is
controlled by the  THS .  Speed may be either managed or selected.
In managed speed, the descent speed is displayed only as a magenta
target but there is no longer a speed target range since the pre-computed
flight profile does not apply.  The  AP / FD  will not consider any  MCDU  descent
altitude constraints and will fly an unrestricted descent down to
the  FCU  selected altitude.  If the
crew wishes to increase the rate of descent,  OP DES  mode
can be used, selecting a higher speed. Speedbrake is very effective
in increasing descent rate but should be used with caution at high
altitude due to the associated increase in  VLS .  If the pilot wishes to shallow the descent path,  V/S  can
be used.  A/THR  reverts to SPEED mode. In this configuration,
the use of speedbrakes is not recommended to reduce speed, since this
would lead to thrust increase and the speed would be maintained.
Guidance and Monitoring
Introduction
To carry out the descent, the flight
crew can use either the managed descent mode ( DES ) or the selected descent
modes ( OP DES  or  V/S ). Both descent modes can be flown either with selected speed or
managed speed.  The modes and monitoring means are actually linked.
The  managed
DES
mode  guides the aircraft
along the  FMS  pre-computed descent profile, as long as
it flies along the lateral  F-PLN : i.e.  DES  mode is available if
NAV
is engaged. As a general rule
when  DES  mode is used, the descent is monitored using:
The  VDEV  called "yoyo" on the  PFD  and the associated
Latch symbol, and
The  VDEV  digital value on the  FMS  PROG page, and
The level arrow
on the  ND .
The  selected
OP DES
or
V/S
modes  are used when  HDG  is selected or
when  ALT CSTR  may be disregarded or for various tactical purposes. As a general
rule when  OP DES  or  V/S  modes are used, the descent is monitored using the Energy Circle,
(displayed if  HDG  or  TRK  modes and indicating the required distance
to descend, decelerate and land from present position) and the level
arrow on the  ND . When the aircraft is not far away from
the lateral  F-PLN  (small  XTK ), the "yoyo"
on the  PFD  is also a good indicator.
Managed Descent Mode
The managed descent profile
from high altitude is approximately  2.5 .  As an estimation of the distance to touchdown
is required to enable descent profile monitoring, it is important
to ensure that the  MCDU  F-PLN page reflects the expected
approach routing.  Any gross errors noted in the descent profile are
usually a result of incorrect routing entered in the  MCDU  or non-sequencing of  F-PLN  waypoints, giving a false
distance to touchdown.  An accurate WIND and  TEMP  data insertion on the associated  FMS  pages will lead to an accurate  DES  profile computation
and following from  FMS .  When in  DES  mode, the  FMGS  gives priority
to the vertical profile  over the speed management. Therefore, if
the aircraft is on the profile and the speed increases with the engines
already at idle the aircraft will accelerate. In such situation, the
flight crew should use the speedbrakes as necessary to manage the
aircraft speed, if required. The  AP  protection will prevent
the aircraft from exceeding  VMO / MMO . In such
situation the aircraft will leave the vertical profile to decelerate.
Descent Initiation
To initiate a managed descent, the flight
crew will set the  ATC  cleared altitude on the  FCU  and push the  ALT .  DES  mode engages and is annunciated on the  FMA . If an early descent were required by  ATC ,  DES  mode would give  1000  rate of descent, until regaining the computed profile.
To avoid overshooting the computed descent
path, it is preferable to push the  FCU
ALT  a
few miles prior to the calculated  T/D . This method will
ensure a controlled entry into the descent and is particularly useful
in situations of high cruise Mach number or strong upper winds.
If the descent is delayed,  DECELERATE  or  T/D REACHED  appears
on the  PFD  and  DECELERATE  or  T/D REACHED  appears on the  MCDU . Speed should be reduced towards green dot, and when cleared for
descent, the flight crew will push for  DES  and push for
managed speed. The speed reduction prior to descent will enable the
aircraft to recover the computed profile more quickly as it accelerates
to the managed descent speed.
Descent Profile
When  DES  is engaged, the  AP / FD  guides the aircraft along the pre-computed descent path determined
by a number of factors such as altitude constraints, wind and descent
speed. However, as the actual conditions may differ from those planned,
the  DES  mode operates within a speed range that varies depending on the
aircraft position related to the vertical profile. This speed range
is not displayed when the aircraft is on or below the profile.
Managed Descent: Speed Target Range Principles
If the aircraft is on the computed descent path:
The aircraft
is latched on the vertical profile (Latch symbol displayed on the
altitude scale of the  PFD )
The speed margins
are not displayed. The  FMGS  commands a nominal IDLE thrust
The elevators
adjust the pitch to maintain the vertical profile
The message  MORE DRAG  will not
be displayed unless a constraint is predicted as missed
The flight crew
should use the speedbrakes as necessary in order to manage the aircraft
speed.
If the aircraft is above the computed descent path:
The descent
rate will increase in order to reach the vertical profile
The speed will
increase up to the upper limit of the speed range
A/THR  will command IDLE thrust and elevators adjust the pitch to accelerate
to the upper limit of the speed range
The message  MORE DRAG  will not
be displayed unless a constraint is predicted as missed. If speedbrakes
are not extended, the intercept point will move forward.
This technique allows an altitude constraint to be matched with minimum
use of speedbrakes.  When regaining the descent profile, the
speedbrakes should be retracted to prevent the  A/THR  applying
thrust against speedbrakes. If the speedbrakes are not retracted,
the  SPEED BRK  on the  ECAM  memo becomes  SPEED BRK .
A/C  Above Descent Path
If the aircraft is below the computed descent path:
The  FMGS  will limit the descent rate
The speed margins
are not displayed
The  A/THR  adjusts the commanded thrust to maintain the target speed with the
constant descent rate.
A/C  Below Descent Path
If selected speed is used:
When in  DES  mode, the  FMGS  gives priority to the vertical
profile. As the selected speed may differ from the speed taken into
account for pre-computed descent profile, the aircraft may not be
able to decelerate to the selected speed target. Therefore, the flight
crew should use the speedbrakes as necessary in order to slow the
aircraft.
Selected Descent
There are 3 modes for flying a selected
descent, namely  OP DES ,  V/S  /  FPA  and
EXP DES  . These modes will
be used for pilot tactical interventions.
V/S  /  FPA  mode is automatically selected when  HDG  or  TRK  mode is selected
by the flight crew, while in  DES  mode. Furthermore, in  HDG  or  TRK  mode, only  OP DES ,  V/S  /  FPA  and
EXP DES
modes are available
for descent.  To initiate a selected descent, the flight
crew should set the  ATC  cleared altitude on the  FCU  and pull the  ALT .  OP DES  mode engages and is annunciated on
the  FMA . In  OP DES  mode, the  A/THR  commands  THR IDLE  and the
speed is controlled by the  THS .  Speed may be either managed or selected.
In managed speed, the descent speed is displayed only as a magenta
target but there is no longer a speed target range since the pre-computed
flight profile does not apply.  The  AP / FD  will not consider any  MCDU  descent
altitude constraints and will fly an unrestricted descent down to
the  FCU  selected altitude.  If the flight crew wishes to increase
the rate of descent,  OP DES  mode can be used, selecting a higher
speed. Speedbrake is very effective in increasing descent rate but
should be used with caution at high altitude due to the associated
increase in  VLS .  If the
flight crew wishes to shallow the descent path,  V/S  can be used.  A/THR  reverts to  SPEED  mode. In this configuration, the use
of speedbrakes is not recommended to reduce speed, since this would
lead to thrust increase and the speed would be maintained.
Holding Speed and Configuration
Whenever holding is anticipated,
it is preferable to maintain cruise level and reduce speed to green
dot, with  ATC  clearance, to minimize the holding requirement.
As a rule of thumb, a  0.05  decrease during  1  equates to  4  hold. However, other
operational constraints might make this option inappropriate.
A holding pattern can be inserted at any point in the flight plan
or may be included as part of the  STAR . In either case,
the holding pattern can be modified by the crew.
If a hold is to be flown, provided  NAV  mode is engaged
and the speed is managed, an automatic speed reduction will occur
to achieve the hold speed when entering the holding pattern.
The default hold speed is the
lowest of the following:
Maximum Endurance
speed
ICAO  limit holding speed
Speed constraint
(if any).
When no specific speed limit
applies, the default hold speed is the Maximum Endurance speed, which
is approximately equal to Green Dot and provides the lowest hourly
fuel consumption.
If the Maximum Endurance speed
is greater than the  ICAO  or state maximum holding speed,
the crew should select flap 1 below  20000  and fly  S  speed. Fuel consumption will be increased when holding in
anything other than clean configuration and Maximum Endurance speed.
In the Holding Pattern
The holding pattern is not included
in the descent path computation since the FMGS does not know how many
patterns will be flown. When the holding fix is sequenced, the FMGS
assumes that only one holding pattern will be flown and updates predictions
accordingly. Once in the holding pattern, the  VDEV  indicates
the vertical deviation between current aircraft altitude and the altitude
at which the aircraft should cross the exit fix in order to be on
the descent profile.
The  DES  mode guides
the aircraft down at  -1000  whilst in the holding
pattern until reaching the cleared altitude or altitude constraint.
When in the holding pattern,
LAST EXIT  UTC /FUEL information is displayed on the  MCDU  HOLD page. These predictions are based upon the fuel policy
requirements specified on the  MCDU  FUEL  PRED  page with no extra fuel, assuming the aircraft will divert. The
crew should be aware that this information is computed with defined
assumptions e.g.:
Aircraft weight
being equal to landing weight at primary destination
Flight at  220  if distance to  ALTN  is less than  200 , otherwise  310  performed at maximum range speed.
Constant wind
(as entered in alternate field of the  DES  WIND page).
Constant delta  ISA  (equal to delta  ISA  at primary destination)
Airway distance
for a company route, otherwise direct distance.
Alternate airport may be modified
using the MCDU ALTN airport page which can be accessed by a lateral
revision at destination.
To exit the holding pattern,
the crew should select either:
IMM  EXIT (The aircraft will return immediately to the hold fix, exit
the holding pattern and resume its navigation), or
HDG  if radar vectors, or
DIR TO  if radar vectors.
F-PLN Sequencing
F-PLN  Sequencing
When in  NAV  mode,
the  F-PLN  will sequence automatically. In  HDG / TRK  mode, the  F-PLN  waypoints will sequence
automatically only if the aircraft flies close to the planned route.
Correct  F-PLN  sequencing is important to ensure that the
planned missed approach route is available in case of go-around and
to ensure correct predictions. A good cue to monitor the proper  F-PLN  sequencing is the  TO  waypoint on the upper
right side of the  ND , which should remain meaningful.
If  ATC  provides radar
vectors and automatic waypoint sequencing does not occur, the flight
crew should use the  DIR TO  RADIAL IN function, or delete
the FROM waypoint on the  F-PLN  page until the next likely
waypoint to be overflown is displayed as the TO waypoint on the  ND . This ensures:
A proper  F-PLN  sequencing
A comprehensive  ND  display
An assistance
for lateral interception
The  VDEV  to be computed on reasonable distance assumptions.
For more
information about the waypoint sequencing,  .
However, considerations should
be given to the following:
A radial is
to be inserted in the  MCDU . In the following example, the
final approach course is  90  corresponding to radial  270 .
DIR TO  RADIAL IN must not be used beyond the Final Descent Point, in order
to ensure that the vertical profile in final is unchanged.
Using  DIR
TO  or  DIR TO  RADIAL IN function arms the  NAV  mode. If  NAV  mode is not appropriate, the flight crew
will pull the  HDG  to disarm it.
Deceleration
will not occur automatically as long as lateral mode is  HDG .
The flight
crew should sequence the  F-PLN  first, and then press the  APPR . When the  LOC  mode (or  F-LOC  mode
for aircraft fitted with  FLS ) is armed or engaged, the
flight crew should not perform a  DIR TO , in order to sequence
the  F-PLN  as this will result in the  FMGS  to
revert to the  NAV  mode. In this case, the  LOC  mode (or  F-LOC  mode for aircraft fitted with  FLS ) will have to be re-armed and re-engaged, increasing workload unduly.
Use of  DIR TO  radial in facility
Approach Phase Activation
Approach Phase Activation
Activation of the approach phase
will initiate a deceleration towards  VAPP  or the speed
constraint inserted at the Final Descent Point ( FDP ).  When in  NAV  mode with managed speed, the approach phase
activates automatically when sequencing the deceleration pseudo-waypoint.
If an early deceleration is required, the approach phase can be activated
on the MCDU PERF APPR page.  When the approach phase is activated,
the magenta target speed becomes  VAPP .
When in  HDG  mode, e.g. for radar vectoring, the crew will
activate the approach phase manually.
Approach Speed Technique
There are two approach techniques:
Decelerated
approach
Early stabilized
approach.
Decelerated Approach
This technique refers to an approach
where the aircraft reaches  1000  in the landing configuration
at  VAPP . In most cases, this equates to the aircraft being
in  CONF  1 and at  S  speed at the  FDP . This is the preferred technique for an approach using vertical
managed guidance. The deceleration pseudo waypoint assumes a decelerated
approach technique.
early stabilized approach
This technique refers to an approach
where the aircraft reaches the  FDP  in the landing configuration
at  VAPP . This technique is recommended for non-precision
approaches ( LOC FPA ,  NAV FPA  and  TRK FPA ). To get a valuable deceleration pseudo waypoint and to ensure a
timely deceleration, the pilot should enter  VAPP  as a speed
constraint at the  FDP .
Early Stabilized versus Decelerated Approach
General
General
The purpose of the intermediate approach
is to bring the aircraft at the proper speed, altitude and configuration
at  FDP .
Deceleration and Configuration Change
Deceleration and Configuration Change
Managed speed is recommended for the
approach. Once the approach phase has been activated, the  A/THR  will guide aircraft speed towards the maneuvering speed of the current
configuration, whenever higher than  VAPP , e.g. green dot
for  CONF  0, S speed for  CONF  1 etc.  To achieve a constant deceleration and
to minimize thrust variation, the crew should extend the next configuration
when reaching the current configuration maneuvering speed  +10  ( IAS  must be lower than  VFE  next), e.g. when
the speed reaches green dot  +10 , the crew should
select  CONF  1. Using this technique, the mean deceleration
rate will be approximately  10 /NM in level flight. This deceleration
rate will be twice i.e.  20 /NM, with the use of the speedbrakes.  If selected speed is to be used to comply with  ATC , the
requested speed should be selected on the  FCU . A speed
below the manoeuvring speed of the present configuration may be selected
provided it is above  VLS . When the  ATC  speed
constraint no longer applies, the pilot should push the  FCU  speed selector to resume managed speed.  When flying the intermediate approach in selected speed, the crew
will activate the approach phase. This will ensure further proper
speed deceleration when resuming managed speed; otherwise the aircraft
will accelerate to the previous applicable descent phase speed.
In certain circumstances, e.g.
tail wind or high weight, the deceleration rate may be insufficient.
In this case, the landing gear may be lowered, preferably below  220  (to avoid gear doors overstress), and before selection of Flap 2.
Speedbrakes can also be used to increase the deceleration rate but
the crew should be aware of:
The increase
in  VLS  with the use of speedbrakes
The limited
effect at low speeds
The speed brake
auto-retraction when selecting  CONF  FULL (A319, A320) or  CONF  3 (A321 only) There is no speed brake auto-retraction
on A318.
Deceleration and Configuration Change
Deceleration and Configuration Change
Managed speed is recommended for the approach. Once the approach
phase has been activated, the  A/THR  will guide aircraft
speed towards the maneuvering speed of the current configuration,
whenever higher than  VAPP , e.g. green dot for  CONF  0, S speed for  CONF  1 etc.  To achieve a constant deceleration and to minimize thrust variation,
the crew should extend the next configuration when reaching the current
configuration maneuvering speed + 10  ( IAS  must be lower than  VFE  next), e.g. when the speed reaches
green dot  +10 , the crew should select  CONF  1.
Using this technique, the mean deceleration rate will be approximately
10 kt/NM in level flight. This deceleration rate will be twice i.e.
20 kt/NM, with the use of the speedbrakes.  If selected speed is to be used to comply with  ATC , the
requested speed should be selected on the  FCU . A speed
below the maneuvering speed of the present configuration may be selected
provided it is above  VLS +  5 . When the  ATC  speed constraint no longer applies, the pilot should push
the  FCU  speed selector to resume managed speed.  When flying
the intermediate approach in selected speed, the crew will activate
the approach phase. This will ensure further proper speed deceleration
when resuming managed speed; otherwise the aircraft will accelerate
to the previous applicable descent phase speed.
In certain circumstances, e.g.
tail wind or high weight, the deceleration rate may be insufficient.
In this case, the landing gear may be lowered, preferably below  220  (to avoid gear doors overstress), and before selection of Flap 2.
Speedbrakes can also be used to increase the deceleration rate but
the crew should be aware of:
The increase
in  VLS  with the use of speedbrakes
The limited
effect at low speeds
The speed brake
auto-retraction when selecting  CONF  FULL.
Deceleration and Configuration Change
Deceleration and Configuration Change
The  CDA  function can recompute
the descent profile and the position of the pseudo-waypoints. However,
the  CDA  function is more efficient if the flight crew flies
a fully managed approach.  When the
approach phase is activated, the  A/THR  guides the aircraft
speed towards the manoeuvring speed of the current configuration,
whenever higher than  VAPP , e.g. green dot for CONF 0, S
speed for CONF 1 etc.
The  CDA  function considers
the expected configuration to calculate the deceleration in the segments
(e.g. between the pseudo waypoints FLAP1 and FLAP2, the  CDA  function assumes a flaps 1 configuration). Therefore, the flight
crew should select the corresponding configuration at the latest at
the pseudo-waypoint. (e.g. select flaps 1 at the latest at the FLAP1
pseudo-waypoint). After the pseudo-waypoint FLAP2, the flight crew
should not delay configuring the aircraft for landing, in order to
have a stabilized configuration at  1000 .  To achieve a constant deceleration and
to minimize thrust variations, the flight crew should extend the next
configuration when reaching the manoeuvring speed  +10  ( IAS  must be lower than  VFE  next). E.g., when
the speed reaches green dot  +10 , the flight crew
should select FLAPS 1.  If selected speed is to be used to comply
with  ATC , the requested speed should be selected on the  FCU . A speed below the manoeuvring speed of the present configuration
may be selected provided it is above  VLS . When the  ATC  speed constraint no longer applies, the pilot should push
the  FCU  speed selector to resume managed speed.  When flying the intermediate approach
in selected speed, the flight crew should activate the approach phase.
This ensures further correct speed deceleration when resuming managed
speed. If they do not activate the approach phase, the aircraft will
accelerate to the previous speed applicable to the descent phase.
The flight crew can use the
speedbrakes to increase the deceleration rate, but they should be
aware of:
The increase
of  VLS  with the use of speedbrakes
The limited
effect at low speeds
The speedbrake
auto-retraction when selecting  CONF  FULL (A319, A320) or  CONF  3 (A321 only) There is no speed brake auto-retraction
on A318.
If the  FMS  displays the MORE DRAG message, the flight crew should
extend half speedbrakes at first. Then, if half speed brakes is not
enough, the flight crew should extend more speedbrakes.
Deceleration and Configuration Change
Deceleration and Configuration Change
The  CDA  function
can recompute the descent profile and the position of the pseudo-waypoints.
However, the  CDA  function is more efficient if the flight
crew flies a fully managed approach.  When the approach phase is activated, the  A/THR  guides
the aircraft speed towards the manoeuvring speed of the current configuration,
whenever higher than  VAPP , e.g. green dot for CONF 0, S
speed for CONF 1 etc.
The  CDA  function
considers the expected configuration to calculate the deceleration
in the segments (e.g. between the pseudo waypoints FLAP1 and FLAP2,
the  CDA  function assumes a flaps 1 configuration). Therefore,
the flight crew should select the corresponding configuration at the
latest at the pseudo-waypoint. (e.g. select flaps 1 at the latest
at the FLAP1 pseudo-waypoint). After the pseudo-waypoint FLAP2, the
flight crew should not delay configuring the aircraft for landing,
in order to have a stabilized configuration at  1000 .  To achieve a constant deceleration
and to minimize thrust variations, the flight crew should extend the
next configuration when reaching the manoeuvring speed  +10  ( IAS  must be lower than  VFE  next). E.g., when
the speed reaches green dot  +10 , the flight crew
should select FLAPS 1.  If selected speed is to be used
to comply with  ATC , the requested speed should be selected
on the  FCU . A speed below the manoeuvring speed of the
present configuration may be selected provided it is above  VLS +  5 . When the  ATC  speed constraint no longer applies,
the pilot should push the  FCU  speed selector to resume
managed speed.  When flying the intermediate
approach in selected speed, the flight crew should activate the approach
phase. This ensures further correct speed deceleration when resuming
managed speed. If they do not activate the approach phase, the aircraft
will accelerate to the previous speed applicable to the descent phase.
The flight crew can use the
speedbrakes to increase the deceleration rate, but they should be
aware of:
The increase
of  VLS  with the use of speedbrakes
The limited
effect at low speeds
The speedbrake
auto-retraction when selecting  CONF  FULL.
If the  FMS  displays
the MORE DRAG message, the flight crew should extend half speed brakes
at first. Then, if half speedbrakes is not enough, the flight crew
should extend more speedbrakes.
Use of A/THR
USE OF  A/THR
The flight crew should use the  A/THR  for approaches as it provides accurate speed control. The  PF  should keep the hand on the thrust levers so as to be prepared to
react if needed.  During
final approach, the managed target speed moves along the speed scale
as a function of wind variation. If  ATC  gives a new wind
for landing, the flight crew will update it on  MCDU
PERF
APPR  page.  The flight crew should ideally check
the reasonableness of the target speed by referring to  GS  on the top left on  ND . If the  A/THR  performance
is unsatisfactory, the  PF  should disconnect it and control
the thrust manually.  If the  PF  uses manual thrust for landing, the  PF  should
disconnect the  A/THR  at  1000
AAL  at the latest.
Trajectory Stabilization
TRAJECTORY STABILIZATION
The first prerequisite for safe final
approach and landing is to stabilize the aircraft as per criteria
given in the FCOM ( ).  If, for any reason, one flight parameter
deviates from stabilized conditions, the  PM  will make a
callout.
Following a  PM  flight
parameter exceedance call out, the suitable  PF  response
will be:
Acknowledge
the  PM  callout, for proper crew coordination purposes
Take immediate
corrective action to control the exceeded parameter back into the
defined stabilized conditions
Assess whether
stabilized conditions will be recovered early enough prior to landing,
otherwise initiate a go-around.
Interception of the Final Vertical Leg
Interception of the Final Vertical Leg
For a managed approach, FINAL
APP becomes active and the  FMS  manages both lateral and
vertical guidance. The crew will monitor the final approach using:
Start of descent
blue symbol on  ND
FMA  on  PFD
VDEV ,  XTK ,  F-PLN  on  ND  with  GPS  PRIMARY
VDEV ,  XTK ,  F-PLN  confirmed by needles, distance/altitude.
If FINAL does not engage at
the beginning of the final descent, the flight crew should consider
to interrupt the instrument approach procedure unless they can maintain
visual references throughout the approach.  In some  NPA s, the final approach flies an "idle descent"
segment from one altitude constraint to another, followed by a level
segment. This is materialized by a magenta level off symbol on  ND  followed by a blue start of descent.
Final Approach Trajectory with Idle Descent Segment
Decision Making
Decision Making
The flight crew must consider
to perform a go-around if:
There is a loss
or a doubt about situational awareness, or
There is a malfunction
that puts in risk the safe performance of the approach, e.g. major
navigation problem, or
ATC  changes the final approach clearance, and this results in rushed
action from the crew, or a possible unstable approach, or
The approach
is unstable in speed, altitude, or flight path in a way that stability
is not obtained by  1000
AAL  in  IMC , (or  500
AAL  in  VMC ), or is not
maintained until landing, or
Any of the following
alerts occur:
GPWS , or
TCAS , or
Windshear, or
ROW
alerts for the related runway condition.
Refer to AS-ROWROP Operating Techniques, or
ALTSM
Refer to AS-ALTSM Operating Techniques,
or
TLM
Refer to AS- TLM Operating Techniques, or
APPSM
messages Refer to AS- APPSM Operating
Techniques.
Appropriate
visual references are not obtained at minima or lost below minima.
Go-Around Near the Ground
GO-AROUND NEAR THE GROUND
The  PF  must not initiate a
go-around after the selection of the thrust reversers. If the  PF  initiates a go-around, the flight crew must complete the
go-around maneuver.
If the flight crew performs
a go-around near the ground, they should take into account the following:
The  PF  should avoid excessive rotation rate, in order to prevent a tailstrike.
For more information
If the engines
are at idle when the go-around is initiated, the engines can take
a few seconds to spool up and the flight crew may need to maintain
the pitch until the aircraft speed increases up to  VAPP
A temporary
landing gear contact with the runway is acceptable
Only when the
aircraft is safely established in the go-around, the flight crew retracts
flaps one step and the landing gear.
If the aircraft
is on the runway when the  PF  applies  TOGA  thrust,
CONFIG
alerts may transiently trigger. The flight crew should
disregard these alerts.
The  PM  must be aware of the thrust reversers status before the initiation
or the call for a go-around.
Go-Around Near the Ground
GO-AROUND NEAR THE GROUND
The  PF  must not initiate
a go-around after the selection of the thrust reversers. If the  PF  initiates a go-around, the flight crew must complete the
go-around maneuver. Below  100 , when flare law is activated,  PF  may need to counteract the thrust effect during go-around.
If the flight crew performs
a go-around near the ground, they should take into account the following:
The  PF  should avoid excessive rotation rate, in order to prevent a tailstrike.
For more information
If the engines
are at idle when the go-around is initiated, the engines can take
a few seconds to spool up and the flight crew may need to maintain
the pitch until the aircraft speed increases up to  VAPP
A temporary
landing gear contact with the runway is acceptable
Only when the
aircraft is safely established in the go-around, the flight crew retracts
flaps one step and the landing gear.
If the aircraft
is on the runway when the  PF  applies  TOGA  thrust,
CONFIG
alerts may transiently trigger. The flight crew should
disregard these alerts.
The  PM  must be aware of the thrust reversers status before the initiation
or the call for a go-around.
Go-Around Near the Ground
GO-AROUND NEAR THE GROUND
The  PF  must not initiate
a go-around after the selection of the thrust reversers. If the  PF  initiates a go-around, the flight crew must complete the
go-around maneuver. Below  100 , when flare law is activated,  PF  may need to counteract the thrust effect during go-around.
If the flight crew performs
a go-around near the ground, they should take into account the following:
The  PF  should avoid excessive rotation rate, in order to prevent a tailstrike.
For more information,
If the engines
are at idle when the go-around is initiated, the engines can take
a few seconds to spool up and the flight crew may need to maintain
the pitch until the aircraft speed increases up to  VAPP
A temporary
landing gear contact with the runway is acceptable
Only when the
aircraft is safely established in the go-around, the flight crew retracts
flaps one step and the landing gear.
The  PM  must be aware
of the thrust reversers status before the initiation or the call for
a go-around.
Go-Around Near the Ground
GO-AROUND NEAR THE GROUND
The  PF  must not initiate
a go-around after the selection of the thrust reversers. If the  PF  initiates a go-around, the flight crew must complete the
go-around maneuver.
If the flight crew performs
a go-around near the ground, they should take into account the following:
The  PF  should avoid excessive rotation rate, in order to prevent a tailstrike.
For more information,
If the engines
are at idle when the go-around is initiated, the engines can take
a few seconds for the engines to spool up and the flight crew may
need to maintain the pitch until the aircraft speed increases up to  VAPP
A temporary
landing gear contact with the runway is acceptable
Only when the
aircraft is safely established in the go-around, the flight crew retracts
flaps one step and the landing gear.
The  PM  must be aware
of the thrust reversers status before the initiation or the call for
a go-around.
AP/FD Go-Around Phase Activation
When the thrust levers are set
to the TOGA detent, with the FLAPS lever not in 0, the following will
occur:
If the autopilot
or the flight director is in use,  SRS  and  GA TRK  modes engage
If the autopilot
and both flight directors are off, the  PF  will maintain  15  of pitch
The  GA  phase activates on the  FMS :
The missed approach
becomes the active  F-PLN
At the end of
the missed approach procedure, the  FMS  strings the previous
flown approach in the active  F-PLN .
If not previously
engaged, the  FD  automatically engages with the  HDG / VS  reference on the  FCU . For the go-around,
the appropriate flight reference is the attitude, because go-around
is a dynamic maneuver
If extended,
the speed brakes automatically retract.
If  TOGA  thrust is not desired during go-around for any reason
(e.g. an early go-around ordered by  ATC ), it is essential
that the thrust levers are set momentarily but without delay, to the
TOGA detent (i.e. the full forward thrust levers position), in order
to ensure proper activation of the  SRS
GA  and the go-around phase
(i.e. guidance modes and  FMS  flight phase). Then, the flight
crew should set the thrust lever to CL detent to take advantage of
the  A/THR  (the  A/THR  follows a speed target).
If the thrust levers are not
correctly set to the TOGA detent, the following occur:
The  AP / FD  remain engaged in approach or landing mode (e.g.  G/S ,  LOC ,  LAND ,  FLARE  on  FMA )
The  FMS  does not engage the  GA  phase, and remains in  APPR  phase
LVR CLB  flashes on  FMA .
If the thrust levers are set
to the TOGA detent with the FLAPS lever at 0, the following occur:
The  AP / FD  remain engaged in approach or landing mode (e.g.  G/S ,  LOC ,  LAND ,  FLARE  on  FMA )
The  FMS  does not engage the  GA  phase, and remains in  APPR  phase
LVR CLB  flashes on  FMA .
Consequently, as the thrust
levers are set to the TOGA detent, the aircraft energy will rapidly
increase but the aircraft will remain on its approach path.  In this case, the flight crew must take appropriate actions without
delay.
AP/FD Go-Around Phase Activation
When the thrust levers are set
to the TOGA detent, with the FLAPS lever not in 0, the following will
occur:
If the autopilot
or the flight director is in use,  SRS  and  GA TRK  ( NAV ) modes engage
If the autopilot
and both flight directors are off, the  PF  will maintain  15  of pitch
The  GA  phase activates on the  FMS :
The missed approach
becomes the active  F-PLN
At the end of
the missed approach procedure, the  FMS  strings the previous
flown approach in the active  F-PLN .
If not previously
engaged, the  FD  automatically engages with the  HDG / VS  reference on the  FCU . For the go-around,
the appropriate flight reference is the attitude, because go-around
is a dynamic maneuver
If extended,
the speed brakes automatically retract.
If  TOGA  thrust is not desired during go-around for any reason
(e.g. an early go-around ordered by  ATC ), it is essential
that the thrust levers are set momentarily but without delay, to the
TOGA detent (i.e. the full forward thrust levers position), in order
to ensure proper activation of the  SRS
GA  and the go-around phase
(i.e. guidance modes and  FMS  flight phase). Then, the flight
crew should set the thrust lever to CL detent to take advantage of
the  A/THR  (the  A/THR  follows a speed target).
If the thrust levers are not
correctly set to the TOGA detent, the following occur:
The  AP / FD  remain engaged in approach or landing mode (e.g.  G/S ,  LOC ,  LAND ,  FLARE  on  FMA )
The  FMS  does not engage the  GA  phase, and remains in  APPR  phase
LVR CLB  flashes on  FMA .
If the thrust levers are set
to the TOGA detent with the FLAPS lever at 0, the following occur:
The  AP / FD  remain engaged in approach or landing mode (e.g.  G/S ,  LOC ,  LAND ,  FLARE  on  FMA )
The  FMS  does not engage the  GA  phase, and remains in  APPR  phase
LVR CLB  flashes on  FMA .
Consequently, as the thrust
levers are set to the TOGA detent, the aircraft energy will rapidly
increase but the aircraft will remain on its approach path.  In this case, the flight crew must take appropriate actions without
delay.
AP/FD Go-Around Phase Activation
When the thrust levers are set
to the TOGA detent, with the FLAPS lever not in 0, the following will
occur:
If the autopilot
or the flight director is in use,  SRS  and  GA TRK  ( NAV ) modes engage
If the autopilot
and both flight directors are off, the  PF  will maintain  15  of pitch
The  GA  phase activates on the  FMS :
The missed approach
becomes the active  F-PLN
At the end of
the missed approach procedure, the  FMS  strings the previous
flown approach in the active  F-PLN .
If not previously
engaged, the  FD  automatically engages with the  HDG / VS  reference on the  FCU . For the go-around,
the appropriate flight reference is the attitude, because go-around
is a dynamic maneuver
If extended,
the speed brakes automatically retract.
To perform
a soft go-around, the  PF  must set thrust levers to the
TOGA detent to ensure engagement of  SRS
GA  mode. Then, the  PF  must set the thrust levers to the FLX/MCT detent to engage the  GA  SOFT mode. In this case, the  FMA  displays  MAN GA SOFT , and the  AP / FD  vertical and lateral modes remain engaged.  In  GA  SOFT mode, the  SRS
GA  mode remains engaged with a
vertical target speed of approximately  2300 .  If  TOGA  thrust is not desired during go-around for any reason
(e.g. an early go-around ordered by  ATC ), it is essential
that the thrust levers are set momentarily but without delay, to the
TOGA detent (i.e. the full forward thrust levers position), in order
to ensure proper activation of the  SRS
GA  and the go-around phase (i.e. guidance modes and  FMS  flight phase).
If the thrust levers are not
correctly set to the TOGA detent (i.e. the full forward thrust levers
position), the following occur:
The  AP / FD  remain engaged in approach or landing mode (e.g.  G/S ,  LOC ,  LAND ,  FLARE  on  FMA )
The  FMS  does not engage the  GA  phase, and remains in  APPR  phase
LVR CLB  flashes on  FMA .
If the thrust levers are set
to the TOGA detent with the FLAPS lever at 0, the following occur:
The  AP / FD  remain engaged in approach or landing mode (e.g.  G/S ,  LOC ,  LAND ,  FLARE  on  FMA )
The  FMS  does not engage the  GA  phase, and remains in  APPR  phase
LVR CLB  flashes on  FMA .
Consequently, as the thrust
levers are set to the TOGA detent, the aircraft energy will rapidly
increase but the aircraft will remain on its approach path.  In this case, the flight crew must take appropriate actions without
delay.
Go-Around Phase
The  SRS  mode guides
the aircraft with the highest speed of  VAPP  or  IAS  at time of  TOGA  selection (limited to maximum of  VLS
+25  with all engines operative or  VLS
+15  with one engine inoperative with  FMS  2)
until the acceleration altitude where the target speed increases to
green dot.
Some  FMS  misbehaviour
may prevent this automatic target speed increase. Should this occur,
pulling the FCU ALT knob for  OP CLB  manually disengages  SRS  mode and allows the target speed to increase to green dot.
It should be noted however, that the target speed increases to green
dot speed as soon as  ALT*  mode engages when approaching
the  FCU  clearance altitude.  The  GA TRK  mode guides the aircraft on the track memorised
at the time of  TOGA  selection. The missed approach route
becomes the ACTIVE  F-PLN  provided the waypoints have been
correctly sequenced on the approach. Pushing for  NAV  enables
the missed approach  F-PLN  to be followed.
Above the go-around acceleration altitude, or when the flight crew
engages another vertical mode ( CLB ,  OP CLB ),
the target speed is green dot.
GO-AROUND WITHOUT SRS
The  SRS  mode does
not engage when  TOGA  is selected in clean configuration.
The  GA  must be performed in manual flight.
Immediately after  TOGA  selection and rotation, the  FD  must be selected OFF to prevent erroneous guidance (if not,
the  FD  remains in approach or landing mode). The  PF  rotates towards the  GA  pitch target.  At the acceleration altitude, the crew will set the selected speed
to green dot before setting  CLB  thrust, the autothrust
will activate in selected speed mode.  The crew will then set the  FD  to on, and select the appropriate
modes.
Go-Around Phase
GO-AROUND WITH  FD  ON
The  SRS  mode guides the aircraft with the highest speed of  VAPP  or  IAS  at time of  TOGA  selection
(limited to maximum of  VLS
+25  with all engines
operative or  VLS
+15  with one engine
inoperative with  FMS  2) until the acceleration altitude
where the target speed increases to green dot.  Some  FMS  misbehavior may prevent
this automatic target speed increase. Should this occur, pulling the
FCU ALT knob for  OP CLB  manually disengages  SRS  mode and allows the target speed to increase to green dot. It should
be noted however, that the target speed increases to green dot speed
as soon as  ALT*  mode engages when approaching the  FCU  clearance altitude.  The missed
approach route becomes the ACTIVE  F-PLN  provided the waypoints
have been correctly sequenced on the approach.
At  TOGA  selection, the missed approach  F-PLN  is immediately followed in  NAV  mode, or will be followed
after a transition in  GA TRK  mode with  NAV  armed.  The  GA TRK  mode guides the aircraft on the track memorized
at the time of  TOGA  selection.  NAV  mode engages
as soon as the aircraft is aligned on the  F-PLN .  Above the go-around acceleration altitude,
or when the flight crew engages another vertical mode ( CLB ,  OP CLB ), the target speed is green dot.
GO-AROUND WITHOUT SRS
The  SRS  mode does not engage
when  TOGA  is selected in clean configuration.
The  GA  must be performed in manual flight.
Immediately
after  TOGA  selection and rotation, the  FD  must
be selected OFF to prevent erroneous guidance (if not, the  FD  remains in approach or landing mode). The  PF  rotates
towards the  GA  pitch target.  At the acceleration altitude, the crew
will set the selected speed to green dot before setting  CLB  thrust, the autothrust will activate in selected speed mode.  The crew will then set the  FD  to on, and select the appropriate modes.
Engines Acceleration
When the pilot sets  TOGA  thrust
for go-around, it takes some time for the engines to spool up due
to the acceleration capability of the high by pass ratio engines.
Therefore, the pilot must be aware that the aircraft will initially
lose some altitude. This altitude loss will be greater if initial
thrust is close to idle and/or the aircraft speed is lower than  VAPP .
Altitude Loss Following a Go-Around
General
GENERAL
The purpose of leaving the go-around
phase is to obtain the proper target speed and proper predictions
depending upon the strategy chosen by the crew. During the missed
approach, the crew will elect either of the following strategies:
Fly a second
approach
Carry out a
diversion.
Second Approach
SECOND APPROACH
If the second approach is required, the
flight crew activates the Approach phase in the  MCDU  PERF
GO AROUND page. The  FMS  switches to Approach phase, and
the target speed moves in relation to the flaps lever setting, e.g.
green dot for Flaps 0.  The flight
crew will ensure the correct waypoint sequencing during the second
approach, so that the missed approach route will be available, if
another go-around is required.  The flight
crew should perform the approach checklist, after revision and/or
confirmation of all approach and performance data, before beginning
the next approach.
Diversion
DIVERSION
Once the aircraft path is established
and clearance has been obtained, the crew will modify the FMGS to
allow the FMGS switching from go-around phase to climb phase:
If the crew
has prepared the  ALTN  FPLN in the active  F-PLN , a lateral revision at the TO  WPT  is required to access
the ENABLE  ALTN  prompt. On selecting the ENABLE  ALTN  prompt, the lateral mode reverts to  HDG  if previously
in  NAV . The aircraft will be flown towards the next waypoint
using  HDG  or  NAV  via a  DIR TO  entry.
If the crew
has prepared the  ALTN  FPLN in the SEC F-PLN, the SEC F-PLN
will be activated, and a  DIR TO  performed as required.  AP / FD  must be in  HDG  mode for the ACTIVATE
SEC F-PLN prompt to be displayed.
If the crew
has not prepared the  ALTN  FPLN, a selected climb will be
initiated. Once established in climb and clear of terrain, the crew
will make a lateral revision at any waypoint to insert a NEW  DEST . The route and a CRZ FL (on  PROG  page) can
be updated as required.
General
Failure to recognize
the need for and to execute a go-around, when required, is a major
cause of approach and landing accidents. Because a go-around is an
infrequent occurrence, it is important to be "go-around minded". The
decision to go-around should not be delayed, as an early go-around
is safer than a last minute one at lower altitude.
FMGC Failure
SINGLE FMGC FAILURE
Should a single  FMGC  failure
occur, the  AP , if engaged on the affected side, will disconnect.
The flight crew can recover the  AP  by selecting the other  AP . The  A/THR  remains operative. Furthermore, flight
plan information on the affected  ND  may be recovered by
using the same range as the opposite  ND .  The flight crew
should consider an  FMGC  reset as detailed in  QRH .
DUAL FMGC FAILURE
Should a dual  FMGC  failure
occur, the  AP / FD  and  A/THR  will disconnect.
The flight crew should try to recover both  AP  and  A/THR  by selecting them back ON (The  AP  and  A/THR  can be recovered if the  FG  parts of the  FMGC  are still available).  If both  AP  and  A/THR  cannot be recovered, the flight crew will have to move the thrust
levers to recover manual thrust. The flight crew should switch off
the  FD s and select  TRK / FPA  to display
the blue track index and the bird. The flight crew can use the  RMP s to tune the  NAVAID s.
The flight crew should refer to the  QRH  for system reset considerations and then
to reload both  FMGC s as required.  If both  FMGC s cannot be recovered and if the BACK UP NAV function is
installed, the BACK UP NAV function provides simplified  IRS  based navigation (Refer to FCOM/DSC-22_20-60-130 General).
For aircraft equipped with  FG  standard from PI17 or PC20 or C15 (Refer to FCOM/DSC-22_10-10
FMGC Standard), in the case of dual  FMS  failure with the  FG  part of the  FMGC  still available, the  AP  remains engaged and reverts to  HDG - V/S  or  TRK - FPA .
Introduction to Emergency Electrical Configuration
The procedure discussed in this
section is the EMERGENCY ELECTRICAL CONFIGURATION.  Whilst it is very
unlikely that this failure will be encountered, it is useful:
To refresh on
the technical background
To recall the
general guidelines that must be followed in such a case
To outline the
main available systems according to the electrical power source.
Technical Background
The emergency electrical configuration
is due to the loss of  AC
BUS  1 and 2. The  RAT  extends automatically. This powers the blue hydraulic circuit
which drives the emergency generator. The emergency generator supplies
both  AC  and  DC
ESS
BUS .
When the  RAT  stalls and the emergency generator is no longer able to
supply both  AC  and  DC
ESS
BUS , the emergency generation network is automatically transferred to
the batteries and the  AC  SHED  ESS  and  DC  SHED  ESS
BUS  are shed.  Below  100 , the  DC
BAT
BUS  is automatically connected and below  50 , the  AC
ESS
BUS  is shed.
General Guidelines
As only  PFD 1 is available,
the left hand seat pilot becomes  PF . Once a safe flight
path is established, and the aircraft is under control,  ECAM  actions will be carried out.  This is
a serious emergency and  ATC  should be notified using appropriate
phraseology ("MAYDAY"). Although the  ECAM  displays  LAND  ASAP in red, it would be unwise to attempt an approach
at a poorly equipped airfield in marginal weather. However, prolonged
flight in this configuration is not recommended.
AP / FD  and  ATHR  are lost. The flight is to be completed manually in alternate
and then, when gear down, in direct law. Crews should be aware that
workload is immediately greatly increased.  As only the  EWD  is available,
disciplined use of the  ECAM  Control Panel ( ECP ) is essential.  Consideration should be given to starting the  APU  as indicated
by the  ECAM  and taking into account the probability to
restore using  APU  generator.  A clear reading of STATUS is essential to assess the aircraft status
and properly sequence actions during the approach.  The handling of this failure is referred
to as a "complex procedure". A summary for handling the procedure
is included in the QRH, which will be referred to upon completion
of the  ECAM  procedure.  The ELEC
EMER CONFIG SYS REMAINING list is available in QRH.  When landing gear is down, flight control law reverts to direct law.  The approach speed must be at least min  RAT  speed ( 140 ) to keep the emergency generator supplying the electrical network.  The  BSCU  are lost. Consequently,
the  NWS  and anti skid are lost. Alternate braking with
yellow hydraulic pressure modulation up to  1000  will be used.
Additionally, reversers are not available.
RA  1+2 are lost with their associated call out. Call out will be made
by  PM .  Approaching  50  during the landing
roll, all display units will be lost.
Remaining Systems
The electrical distribution
has been designed to fly, navigate, communicate and ensure passengers
comfort. The ELEC EMER CONFIG SYS REMAINING list is available in QRH.
The significant remaining systems are:
Significant remaining
systems in ELEC EMER CONFIG
FLY
PFD 1, alternate
law
NAVIGATE
ND 1,  FMGC 1,  RMP 1,  VOR 1/ ILS 1,
DME  1
COMMUNICATE
VHF 1,  HF 1,  ATC 1
On  BAT , some additional loads
are lost such as  FAC 1 and  FMGC 1.
Remaining Systems
The electrical distribution has been
designed to fly, navigate, communicate and ensure passengers comfort.
The ELEC EMER CONFIG SYS REMAINING list is available in  QRH . The significant remaining systems are:
Significant remaining
systems in ELEC EMER CONFIG
FLY
PFD 1, alternate
law
NAVIGATE
ND 1,  FMGC 1,  VOR 1/ ILS 1,
DME  1
COMMUNICATE
RMP 1,  RMP 2,  VHF 1,  HF 1,  ATC 1
On  BAT , some additional loads
are lost such as  FAC 1 and  FMGC 1.
Stall Recovery
Stall Recovery
The immediate
key action is to reduce  AOA :  The reduction of  AOA  will enable the wing to regain lift.  This must be achieved
by applying a nose down pitch order on the sidestick. This pilot action
ensures an immediate aircraft response and reduction of the  AOA .  In case of lack of
pitch down authority, it may be necessary to reduce thrust.  Simultaneously, the
flight crew must ensure that the wings are level in order to reduce
the lift necessary for the flight, and as a consequence, the required  AOA .  As a general rule,
minimizing the loss of altitude is secondary to the reduction of the  AOA  as the first priority is to regain lift.  As  AOA  reduces
below the  AOA  stall , lift and drag will return to their normal values.
The secondary
action is to increase energy:  When stall indications
have stopped, the flight crew should increase thrust smoothly as needed
and must ensure that the speed brakes are retracted.  Immediate maximum
thrust application upon stall recognition is not appropriate. Due
to the engine spool up time, the aircraft speed increase that results
from thrust increase, is slow and does not enable to reduce the  AOA  instantaneously.  Furthermore, for under
wing mounted engines, the thrust increase generates a pitch up that
may prevent the required reduction of  AOA .
When stall indications have
stopped, and when the aircraft has recovered sufficient energy, the
flight crew can smoothly recover the initial flight path. If in clean
configuration and below FL 200, during flight path recovery, the flight
crew must select FLAPS 1 in order to increase the margin to  AOA  stall.
Stall Warning at Liftoff
Stall Warning at LiftOff
If the stall warnings are triggered at
liftoff, the flight crew must fly the appropriate thrust and pitch
for takeoff in order to ensure a safe flight path and attempt to stop
the stall warnings.  The flight
crew applies  TOGA  thrust in order to get the maximum available
thrust. Simultaneously, the flight crew must target a pitch angle
of  15  and maintain wings level in order to ensure safe climb.  Then, when a safe flight path
and speed are achieved, if the stall warnings are still activated
the flight crew must consider that they are spurious warnings.  Spurious stall warnings at liftoff may be triggered in the case of:
Damage to the  AOA  probes
Ice Ridges degrading
pitot and  AOA
Wake Vortex.
Overspeed Recovery
OVERSPEED RECOVERY
Overspeed Recovery Technique
The flight crew must apply the overspeed
recovery technique if the speed/Mach exceeds  VMO / MMO .
The  OVERSPEED  alert is triggered if the speed/Mach
exceeds  VMO  + 4 / MMO  + 0.006 , and lasts until the speed is below  VMO / MMO .  .  The flight crew should keep the  AP  engaged.
In order
to minimize overspeed, the flight crew should extend the speed brakes
to the most appropriate lever position, depending on the overspeed
situation.  If the  A/THR  is ON, keep it engaged and check that the
thrust is reducing to idle. There is no operational advantage in manually
setting all thrust levers to idle for overspeed recovery. The engine
thrust reduction is the same in both cases.  If the  A/THR  is OFF, set all thrust levers to idle.  In the case of severe overspeed, the  AP  automatically disengages and then, the high speed protection
activates in normal law. As a result, the aircraft encounters an automatic
pitch up.  .
The  AP  does not automatically
disengage as soon as the speed reaches the green bars (that represent
the threshold when the high speed protection activates) on the  PFD . The  AP  disengagement depends on the speed variations
and the high speed protection logic.
The high
speed protection is designed to request the appropriate demand of
vertical load factor. Therefore, the flight crew should smoothly adjust
the pitch attitude to avoid excessive load factors.
The flight crew must disregard
the  FD  orders while the high speed protection is active.
The  FD  orders do not take into account the high speed protection.
The flight
crew should keep the speed brakes because the use of the speed brakes
is compatible with the high speed protection.
When Speed is Below VMO/MMO
WHEN THE SPEED IS BELOW  VMO / MMO
When the aircraft speed is below  VMO / MMO  with a sufficient speed margin, the flight
crew should retract the speed brakes and should select a new speed
target. If the flight crew retracts the speed brakes when the speed
is close to  VMO / MMO , the speed may exceed  VMO / MMO  again at speed brake retraction. If the  A/THR  is  OFF , the flight crew should manually adjust
the thrust levers.  After
severe overspeed, the flight crew should recover the flight path smoothly,
and then should engage the  AP  in accordance with the recommended
procedure for  AP  engagement.  .
Handling the Aircraft in the Case of Severe Damage
In the event of severe damage to the
aircraft, the flight crew’s immediate action should be to “fly the
aircraft". In severe damage cases, it might be necessary for
the flight crew to revert to the use of a “back to basics" flying
techniques, where bank, pitch, and thrust are the primary parameters
to manually control. In addition, as for any flight phase, the flight
crew must continue to perform all navigation and communication tasks.  If the damage significantly affects aircraft
aerodynamics, flight controls, or engines, then aircraft handling
qualities may be affected. Therefore, the flight crew should perform
an assessment of aircraft handling qualities as soon as possible,
in order to identify how pitch, roll, and yaw are controllable.  During assessment of the flight controls,
the flight crew should apply smooth sidestick input and should limit
the bank angle to 15°, in order to prevent possible destabilization
of the aircraft. In addition, the flight crew should avoid use of
the speedbrakes before the end of the flight, unless necessary.
To assess aircraft handling
qualities, the flight crew must keep the following basic principles
in mind:
Elevators, ailerons,
and rudder are the primary flight controls.
In addition
to use of the elevators, use of the THS (via longitudinal trim control)
may also be necessary in order to control pitch.
On all Airbus
aircraft, engines are mounted under the wing. As a consequence a thrust
increase results in a pitch-up effect, and a thrust decrease results
in a pitch-down effect.
If damage to
the aircraft is severe, it may be necessary to use abnormal flying
techniques to maintain control of the aircraft. Each flight control
can be used to compensate for an inoperative or damaged surface. For
example, the flight crew can compensate for a lack of roll efficiency
via the use of rudder input. As another example, the application of
asymmetrical thrust enables the flight crew to indirectly control
roll, with a slightly delayed response.
Sudden commanded full,
or nearly full, opposite rudder movement against a sideslip can generate
loads that exceed the limit loads and possibly the ultimate loads
and can result in structural failure.  This is true even
at speeds below the maximum design maneuvering speed, VA.
As soon as control of the aircraft
is ensured:
Depending on
the severity of the damage to the aircraft, the flight crew may attempt
to use automation. However, if the autopilot and the flight director
remain available, their operation may be erratic. Therefore, the flight
crew should monitor carefully the AP behaviour, and must be prepared
to immediately revert to manual flying techniques.
The flight crew
can start ECAM actions, if applicable. An assessment of the flight
deck indications may provide the flight crew with useful information
about affected systems. When possible and depending on the situation,
a visual check can also provide important information.
Prior
to landing and at an appropriate altitude, the flight crew must perform
an assessment of aircraft handling qualities in landing configuration
in order to help determine an appropriate strategy for approach and
landing. The flight crew must perform this analysis at different speeds
down to VAPP. If it becomes difficult  to control the aircraft when
the aircraft goes below a specific speed, the flight crew must perform
the approach landing at a speed above this specific speed. The result
of the above-mentioned assessments helps to build the correct follow
up strategy. The quantity of flight crew workload required to maintain
control of the aircraft is one of the decision factors to take into
account for this strategy. Good flight crew coordination is essential
throughout the assessment process. The flight crew should share their
own understanding and view of the situation with their other flight
crewmembers.
Cockpit Windshield/Window Cracked
Cockpit Windows Description
Cockpit Windshield/Windows Damage Description
During flight, cockpit windows
may be damaged due to:
Impact with
foreign objects
Electrical arcing
of the windows heating system
Natural ageing
of the heating film
Moisture ingress
Delamination
Manufacturing
quality defect
Damage done
at installation.
As per
design, each structural ply (Inner ply or Middle ply) can sustain
twice the maximum differential pressure of a standard flight.  Therefore, depending on the part of the
windshield/window that is damaged, the structural integrity of the
windshield/window may not be impacted.
Cockpit windows damage evaluation
In the case of a cockpit windshield/window
cracking, the flight crew should evaluate the damage.
Structural Integrity Evaluation
The flight crew must
be careful when touching the damaged window. Broken glass chips can
cause cuts.
The COCKPIT WINDSHIELD/WINDOW
CRACKED procedure (  procedure)
requires the flight crew to check if the Inner ply is affected. To
do so, the flight crew should touch the affected glass with a pen
or a finger nail to check if the crack(s) is(are) on the cockpit side
(Inner ply):
If there is
no crack on the cockpit side:  The Inner ply is not
damaged. Therefore, the structural integrity is not affected: the
windshield/window is still able to sustain the differential pressure
up to the maximum flight level.
If there are
cracks on the cockpit side:  The Inner ply is damaged.
The structural integrity of the window may be altered. As the flight
crew cannot easily identify if the Middle ply is also affected or
not, the flight crew must descend to  230 / MEA  in order to reduce the ΔP to  5 .
procedure to get the full procedure.
Additional Visual Clues:
In addition, visual clues can help the
flight crew to assess which part of the window is affected by the
crack.
The visual clues given
below are not sufficient to assess the structural integrity of the
window. The flight crew must do a physical check of the Inner ply
of the windshield as required by the COCKPIT WINDSHIELD/WINDOW CRACKED
procedure (  procedure)
and apply the procedure accordingly.
A heating film cracking looks like roughly
a straight line across the window starting from a window edge. In
most of the cases the line stops in the middle of the window.  An outer ply cracking usually shows a
few broken lines that start from one edge of the windshield or from
a foreign object impact, and go through the window to another edge.  A structural ply cracking (Inner ply
or Middle ply) has a break pattern that covers the entire surface
of the windshield. The small pieces of broken glass impair the visibility.
Typical Cockpit Window Damages
Introduction
Fire, smoke or fumes in the fuselage
may lead to potential hazardous situations. The flight crew will have
to deal with the emergency itself, but also with the passengers who
may possibly panic if they become aware of the situation. It is essential
therefore, that action to control the source of combustion is not
delayed.  An immediate
diversion should be considered as soon as the smoke/fumes are detected.
If the source is not immediately obvious, accessible and extinguishable,
an immediate diversion should be initiated without delay.
Smoke / Fumes Detection and Procedure Application
The smoke
or fumes will be identified either by an  ECAM  alert, or
by the crew without any  ECAM  alert.
If the smoke or fumes are detected by
the crew, without any  ECAM  alert, the flight crew will
refer directly to the [QRH]  SMOKE / FUMES / AVNCS SMOKE  procedure.  If the
AVIONICS  SMOKE
alert is activated, the flight crew can refer directly
to the [QRH]  SMOKE /
FUMES / AVNCS SMOKE  procedure, or apply first the  ECAM  actions, before entering the  QRH .  The
AVIONICS  SMOKE
alert should be applied only IF SMOKE / FUMES ARE PERCEPTIBLE.  The smoke
or fumes are perceptible if the flight crew can confirm it visually
or by smell.  If smoke or fumes are not perceptible,
the flight crew should consider a spurious alert and therefore stop
the
AVIONICS  SMOKE
procedure.  If another  ECAM  SMOKE alert
(e.g. LAVATORY SMOKE) is triggered, the flight crew must apply the  ECAM  procedure. If any doubt exists about the smoke/fumes origin,
the flight crew will then refer to the [QRH]  SMOKE / FUMES / AVNCS SMOKE  procedure.
Smoke / Fumes Procedure Architecture
Coordination with Cabin Crew
Good coordination between cockpit
and cabin crew is a key element .  In case
of smoke/fumes in the cabin, it is essential that the cabin crew estimate
and inform the cockpit concerning the density of smoke/fumes and the
severity of the situation.
Smoke / Fumes / AVNCS Smoke QRH Procedure
General
The [QRH]  SMOKE / FUMES / AVNCS SMOKE  procedure implements
a global philosophy that is applicable to both cabin and cockpit smoke/fumes
cases. This philosophy includes the following main steps:
Diversion to
be anticipated
Immediate actions.
If smoke/fumes source not immediately
isolated:
Diversion initiation
Smoke/fumes
origin identification and fighting.
Furthermore,
at any time during the procedure application, if smoke/fumes become
the greatest threat, the boxed items will be completed.  The main steps of this global philosophy
may be visualized in the [QRH]  SMOKE / FUMES / AVNCS SMOKE  procedure.
SMOKE / FUMES /  AVNCS  SMOKE Procedure Presentation
in QRH
Considerations About Diversion
Time is critical.  Therefore, the flight crew must immediately
anticipate a diversion, as indicated by  LAND ASAP  in the procedure.  Then,
after the immediate actions, if the smoke/fumes source are not immediately
identified and isolated, the flight crew must initiate the diversion
before entering the identification and isolation part of the procedure.
Immediate Actions
These actions are common to all cases
of smoke or fumes, whatever the source.
Their objectives are:
Flight crew
protection
Avoiding any
further contamination of the cockpit/cabin
Communication
with cabin crew.
Flight Crew Protection
It is at the discretion of the
flight crew to don the oxygen masks, depending on the situation.  If required, or in the case that the flight crew are not sure, all
flight crew members must don the oxygen mask.
Smoke/Fumes Origin Identification and Fighting
The crew tries to identify the
smoke/fumes source by isolating systems. Some guidelines may help
the crew to identify the origin of smoke/fumes:
If smoke/fumes
initially come out of the cockpit's ventilation outlets, or if
smoke/fumes are detected in the cabin, the crew may suspect an AIR  COND  SMOKE/FUMES. In addition, very shortly thereafter, several
SMOKE alerts (cargo, lavatory, avionics) will be triggered. The displayed  ECAM  procedures must therefore be applied.
Following an
identified  ENG  or  APU  failure, smoke/fumes may
emanate from the faulty item through the bleed system and be perceptible
in the cockpit or the cabin. In that case, it will be re-circulated
throughout the aircraft, until it completely disappears from the air
conditioning system.
If only the
AVIONICS SMOKE
alert is triggered, the crew may suspect an AVIONICS
SMOKE.
If smoke/fumes
are detected, while an equipment is declared faulty, the crew may
suspect that smoke/fumes are coming from this equipment.
The crew may
also perceive fumes with odors: to help the identification of the
possible source and to enhance the communication coordination with
the cabin crew, the table below gathers some of the fumes with odors
that may occur on board, with the suspected causes.
DESCRIPTION OF ODORS
SUSPECTED CAUSE  (MOST REPORTED LISTED
FIRST)
Acrid
Electrical Equipment/IFE  Engine Oil Leak
Burning
Electrical Equipment  Galley Equipment  Bird Ingestion
Chemical
Contaminated Bleed
Ducts  APU Ingestion
Chlorine
Smoke Hood  Blocked Door Area
Drain
Electrical
Electrical Equipment
Dirty Socks
APU or Engine Oil
Leaks
Foul
Lavatories
Fuel
APU FCU/Fuel Line
Oil
Engine or APU Oil
Leak
Skydrol
Engine Hydraulic
Sulphur
Wiring  Avionics Filter Water
Contamination  Light Bulb
According to the source
they suspect, the flight crew will enter one of the 3 paragraphs:
IF AIR  COND  SMOKE/FUMES SUSPECTED…
IF  CAB  EQUIPMENT SMOKE/FUMES SUSPECTED…
IF SMOKE/FUMES
SOURCE CANNOT BE DETERMINED AND PERSIST OR  AVNCS /ELECTRICAL
SMOKE/FUMES SUSPECTED...
Since electrical fire is the most critical
case, the flight crew will also enter paragraph 3 if the source of
the smoke/fumes is not identified, or if the application of paragraph
1 and/or 2 has been unsuccessful.  In this part of the procedure, the flight
crew must consider setting the Emergency Electrical Configuration,
to shed as much equipment as possible. This is in order to attempt
to isolate the smoke/fumes source.  If at least one battery is charging when
one side and then the other side of the electrical system are shed,
the  DC 1,  DC 2, and  BAT  bus bars become
inoperative for the remainder of the flight. Therefore, the procedure
for attempting to partially shed the electrical system was removed
from the smoke/fumes procedure. This change in the procedure is to
enable the flight crew to recover the normal electrical configuration
for landing, particularly to recover normal braking.  If the flight crew sets the electrical
emergency configuration following a smoke/fumes detection in the avionic
compartment (  AVIONICS
SMOKE
alert triggered), the  ECAM  does not display the same procedure as the one displayed following
the loss of main generators. In fact in this case, the  ECAM  displays a specific procedure that takes into account the smoke
detection: As the flight crew has voluntarily set the electrical emergency
configuration, the purpose of the
ELEC  EMER CONFIG
procedure is not to try to restore the generators, but
to remain in electrical emergency configuration, and restore generators
before landing to perform the landing in normal electrical configuration.
Boxed Items
These items (applying [QRH]  REMOVAL OF SMOKE / FUMES  procedure,
setting electrical emergency configuration, or considering immediate
landing) may be applied at any time, in the procedure (but not before
the immediate actions).  Once the
first steps of the [QRH]  REMOVAL
OF SMOKE / FUMES  procedure have been applied, the flight crew
will come back to the [QRH]  SMOKE / FUMES / AVNCS SMOKE  procedure, to
apply the appropriate steps, depending on the suspected smoke/fumes
source while descending to  100 . Reaching  100 , the [QRH]  REMOVAL
OF SMOKE / FUMES  procedure will be completed.
Lithium Battery Fire in the Cockpit
Several electronic devices contain
lithium batteries, for example:
Laptop computers,
Mobile phones,
Portable electronic
tablets, etc.
Fire or
smoke from lithium battery is due to  thermal runaway in the battery
cells.
It is
important to know that fire extinguishers are efficient on flames
but cannot stop thermal runaway.  The treatment
for thermal runaway of lithium battery is to cool the battery by pouring
water or non-alcoholic liquid on the device.
The first step of the procedure establishes
appropriate tasksharing and communication.  If necessary, transfer control to the
flight crew member seated on the opposite side of the fire.  The Pilot Flying ( PF ) contacts
the cabin crew to request initiation of the  CCOM  “STORAGE
PROCEDURE AFTER A LITHIUM BATTERY FIRE".
This  CCOM  procedure specifies
that the cabin crew must fill a container with water or non-alcoholic
liquid and must immerse the device in it.  If there is no cabin crew on board (e.g
ferry flight, etc.), the Pilot Monitoring ( PM ) must apply
the steps of the  CCOM  procedure.  If there are flames, the  PM  must use the fire extinguisher.
Before discharging the fire extinguisher,
it is important to protect the flight crew respiratory system: the  PF  must wear the oxygen mask and the  PM  must wear
the smoke hood .  If there
are no flames, or when the flames are extinguished, the  PM  must assess if the device can be removed or not from the cockpit.
If the device is attached to a cable
that cannot be easily disconnected, then the device must be considered
not removable from the cockpit, and water or non-alcoholic liquid
must be poured on it.  The device
must then be regularly monitored to ensure that the thermal runaway
is successfully  stopped. If the device is removable, then it must
be put in the container prepared in advance by the cabin crew member
who takes over the procedure.  If, at
any time of the procedure, the smoke becomes the greatest threat,
the flight crew must consider applying the SMOKE/FUMES REMOVAL procedure.
Finally, if at any time of the procedure,
the situation becomes unmanageable an immediate landing must be considered.
Cargo Smoke
The cargo compartments are designed to
be air-tight and fireproof in order to contain a fire. The  cargo ventilation  is designed to prevent the cargo
smoke from coming to the cockpit/cabin. Therefore, the flight crew
should be aware that a cargo smoke is not perceptible from the cockpit/cabin.
The flight crew can only confirm a
SMOKE  AFT(FWD) CARGO
SMOKE
alert with the  SMOKE  illuminated
on the  CARGO SMOKE  panel.  The flight crew should also expect the
SMOKE  AFT(FWD) CARGO SMOKE
alert to remain after
agent discharge, even if the smoke source is extinguished. This is
because gases from the smoke source are not evacuated, and smoke detectors
are sensitive to the extinguishing agent. Once isolation valves are
closed, the cargo is not ventilated. Thus, the cargo temperature is
unreliable..  On the ground, the crew should
instruct the ground crew not to open the cargo door until the passengers
have disembarked and fire services are present.  If the
SMOKE  AFT(FWD) CARGO
SMOKE
alert is displayed on ground, with the
cargo compartment door open, do not initiate an AGENT DISCHARGE. Request
the ground crew to investigate and eliminate the smoke source. On
ground, the alert may be triggered due to a high level of humidity.
Abnormal Flaps/Slats Configuration
CAUSES
Abnormal operation of the flaps
and/or slats may be due to one of the following problems:
Double  SFCC  failure
Double hydraulic
failure (B+G or Y+G)
Flaps/Slats
jammed (operation of the  WTB )
CONSEQUENCES
Abnormal operation of the flaps
and slats has significant consequences since:
The control
laws may change
The selected
speed must be used
An early stabilized
approach should be preferred
The approach
attitudes change
Approach speeds
and landing distances increase
The go-around
procedure may have to be modified.
The  FMS  predictions
do not take into account the slat or flap failures. Since fuel consumption
is increased, these predictions are not valid.
FAILURE AT TAKEOFF
Should a flap/slat retraction problem
occur at takeoff, the crew will PULL the speed knob for selected speed
to stop the acceleration and avoid exceeding  VFE . The overspeed
warning is computed according to the actual slats/flaps position.  The landing distance available at the
departure airport and the aircraft gross weight will determine the
crew's next course of action.
FAILURE DURING THE APPROACH
The detection of a slat or flap
failure occurs with the selection of flap lever during the approach.
With  A/THR  operative, the managed speed target will become
the next manoeuvring characteristic speed e.g.  S  speed
when selecting flap lever to 1. At this stage, if a slat or flap failure
occurs, the crew will:
Pull the speed
knob for selected speed to avoid further deceleration
Delay the approach
to complete the  ECAM  procedure
Refer to LANDING
WITH FLAPS OR SLATS JAMMED  QRH  procedure.
Update the arrival
briefing.
In the  QRH , the line, "SPD SEL............VFE NEXT  -5 " is designed to allow the crew to configure the aircraft for
landing whilst controlling the speed in a safe manner. This procedure
may involve reducing speed below the manoeuvring speed for the current
configuration which is acceptable provided the speed is kept above  VLS . The speed reduction and configuration changes should preferably
be carried out with wings leveled.  Assuming  VLS  is displayed
on the  PFD ,  VAPP  should be close to  VLS  + wind correction, since this speed is computed on the actual slat/flap
position.  VAPP  can be lower than  VLS .  The  AP  may be used down to  500
AGL . As the  AP  is not tuned for the abnormal
configurations, its behavior can be less than optimum and must be
monitored.
During the arrival briefing,
the following should be emphasized:
Tail strike
awareness
The go-around
configuration
Any deviation
from standard call out
The speeds to
be flown, following a missed approach
At the acceleration
altitude, selected speed must be used to control the acceleration
to the required speed for the configuration.
Consider
the fuel available and the increased consumption associated with a
diversion when flying with flaps and/or slats jammed. Additionally,
when diverting with flaps/slats extended, cruise altitude is limited
to  20000 .
Hydraulic Generation Particularities
PREFACE
The aircraft has three continuously operating
hydraulic systems: green, blue and yellow.  A bidirectional Power
Transfer Unit ( PTU ) enables the yellow system to pressurize
the green system and vice versa. Hydraulic fluid cannot be transferred
from one system to another.
PTU PRINCIPLE
In flight, the  PTU  operates
automatically if differential pressure between green and yellow systems
exceeds  500 . This allows to cover the loss of one engine
or one engine driven pump cases.
USE OF PTU IN CASE OF FAILURE
In case of reservoir low level, reservoir
overheat, reservoir low air pressure, the  PTU  must be switched
OFF as required by  ECAM  to avoid a  PTU  overheat
which may occur two minutes later. Indeed, a  PTU  overheat
may lead to the loss of the second hydraulic circuit.
RECOMMENDATIONS
When required by the  ECAM , the PTU should be switched off without delay in case of:
HYD
G(Y) RSVR  LO
LVL
HYD
G(Y) RSVR  LO  AIR PR (Only
if pressure fluctuates)
HYD
G(Y) RSVR  OVHT
Dual Hydraulic Failures
PREFACE
Single hydraulic failures have very little
effect on the handling of the aircraft but will cause a degradation
of the landing capability to  CAT  3 SINGLE.
Dual hydraulic failures however,
although unlikely, are significant due to the following consequences
depending on the affected hydraulic circuits ( ):
Loss of  AP
Flight control
law degradation
Landing in abnormal
configuration
Extensive  ECAM  procedures with associated workload and task-sharing considerations
Significant
considerations for approach and landing.
GENERAL GUIDELINES
It is important to note that
the  AP  will not be available to the crew but both  FD  and  A/THR  still remain. Additionally, depending
on the affected hydraulic circuits, aircraft handling characteristics
may be different due to the loss of some control surfaces. The  PF  will maneuver with care to avoid high hydraulic demand on
the remaining systems.  The  PF  will be very busy flying the aircraft and handling the communications
with the flight controls in Alternate Law (  HYD  G+B SYS LO PR
or
HYD  G+Y SYS LO PR  ).  A double hydraulic failure is an emergency
situation, with red  LAND  ASAP displayed,
and a MAYDAY should be declared to  ATC . A landing must
be carried out as soon as possible bearing in mind, however, that
the  ECAM  actions should be completed prior the approach.
PF  will then require the  ECAM  actions. A clear
reading of STATUS is essential to assess the aircraft status and properly
sequence actions during the approach.  This failure
is called a "complex procedure" and the QRH summary should
be referred to upon completion of the  ECAM  procedure ( ).  While there is no need to remember the
following details, an understanding of the structure of the hydraulic
and flight control systems would be an advantage.  The  F/CTL  and the OPS DATA section of the  QRH  provide an overview
of the flight controls affected by the loss of hydraulic systems.
The briefing will concentrate
on safety issues since this will be a hand-flown approach with certain
handling restrictions:
Use of the selected
speeds on the  FCU
Landing gear
gravity extension
Approach configuration
and flap lever position
Approach speed  VAPP
An early stabilized
approach will be preferred
Tail strike
awareness
Braking and
steering considerations
Go around call
out, aircraft configuration and speed.
The STATUS
page requires, in each case, a landing gear gravity extension. The
LANDING GEAR GRAVITY EXTENSION procedure will be completed with reference
to the  QRH .
Remaining Systems
Remaining systems
Flight phase
Systems
HYD  G+B
SYS LO PR
HYD  G+Y
SYS LO PR
HYD  B+Y
SYS LO PR
Cruise
Auto pilot
Inop
Inop
Inop
Yaw damper
YD2 only
Inop
YD1 only
Control law
ALTN  LAW
and DIRECT LAW when  L/G
DN
ALTN  LAW
and DIRECT LAW when  L/G
DN
NORM  LAW
Stabilizer
Avail
Inop
Avail
Spoilers
2  SPLR S/wing
1  SPLR /wing
2  SPLR S/wing
Elevator
R  ELEV  only
Avail
L  ELEV  only
Aileron
Inop
Avail
Avail
The stabilizer is lost. In alternate
law, the auto trim function is provided through the elevators. At
landing gear extension, switching to direct law, the auto trim function
is lost. However, the mean elevator position at that time is memorized,
and becomes the reference for centered sidestick position. This is
why, in order to ensure proper centered sidestick position for approach
and landing, the procedure requires to wait for stabilization at  VAPP , before landing gear extension.  If this procedure
is missed, the flare and pitch control in case of go-around may be
difficult.  The  PFD  message USE  MAN  PITCH TRIM after landing gear extension
should thus be disregarded.
Remaining systems
Flight phase
Systems
HYD  G+B
SYS LO PR
HYD  G+Y
SYS LO PR
HYD  B+Y
SYS LO PR
Landing
Slats/Flaps
FLAPS slow only
SLATS slow only
SLATS/FLAPS slow
L/G  extension
Gravity
Gravity
Gravity
Braking
ALTN
BRK  only
Y  ACCU
PRESS  only
NORM
BRK  only
Anti skid
Avail
Inop
Avail
Nose wheel steering
Avail
Inop
Inop
Reverse
REV  2 only
Inop
REV  1 only
Go/around
L/G  retraction
Inop
Inop
Inop
High pitch during approach should
be expected. Arrival briefing should outline it for tail strike awareness
and pitch attitude will be monitored during flare.
Landing with Abnormal L/G
To avoid unnecessary application of the  L/G  GRAVITY EXTENSION and the  LDG  WITH ABNORMAL  L/G
QRH  procedures, the flight crew must check for
the green indications of the three landing gears on the  ECAM  WHEEL SD page: at least one green triangle on each landing gear
is sufficient to indicate that the landing gear is down and locked.
The flight crew must also rely on the  LDG GEAR
DN
MEMO . This is sufficient to confirm that the
landing gear is downlocked.  If one landing gear is not downlocked,
the flight crew must perform the  LDG  WITH ABNORMAL  L/G
QRH  procedure. In this case, it is always better
to land with any available gear rather than carry out a landing without
any gear.  In all cases, weight should
be reduced as much as possible to provide the slowest possible touchdown
speed.
A fuel imbalance may be considered
by the flight crew. Landing with a lighter wing on the affected side
allows to keep it up longer and delay the moment of nacelle contact.
If the imbalance advisory triggers, the flight crew can disregard
it, as the aircraft handling qualities are not significantly affected.  Although foaming of the runway is not a requirement, full advantage
should be taken of any  ATC  offer to do so.
The passengers and cabin crew should be informed of the situation
in good time. This will allow the cabin crew to prepare the cabin
and perform their emergency landing and evacuation procedures.  If one
or both main landing gears are in abnormal position, the ground spoilers
will not be armed to keep as much roll authority as possible to maintain
the wings level. Ground spoiler extension would prevent spoilers from
acting as roll surfaces.  The flight crew will not arm the autobrake as manual braking will
enable better pitch and roll control. Furthermore, with at least one
main landing gear in the abnormal position, the autobrake cannot be
activated (ground spoilers not armed).  With one main landing gear not extended, the reference speed used
by the anti-skid system is not correctly initialized. Consequently,
the anti-skid must be switched off to prevent permanent brake release.
In all cases, a normal approach
should be flown and control surfaces used as required to maintain
the aircraft in a normal attitude for as long as possible after touchdown.
The flight crew should perform the following actions:
At any time,
maintain runway axis
At first touchdown,
prevent nacelle impact
During rollout,
maintain wing level with roll control as long as possible
When the nacelle
touches the surface, use rudder control and differential braking at
lower speed to maintain runway axis.
The recommendations to set the  ENG  masters to OFF are as follows:
If NOSE  L/G  abnormal: Before nose impact
If one MAIN  L/G  abnormal: At touchdown
If both MAIN  L/G  abnormal: During the flare, before touchdown.
This ensures that the fuel is
cut off before nacelle touchdown. The engine hydraulic pumps continue
to supply sufficient hydraulic pressure for approximately  30  after engine shutdown.  If one main landing gear is
in abnormal position, the reversers will not be used to prevent the
ground spoilers extension. If the nose landing gear is in abnormal
position, the reversers will not be used to prevent the nose down
effect induced by the reverse thrust.  The engines and  APU  fire pbs are pushed when the use of
flight controls is no longer required i.e. when aircraft has stopped.
Nose Wheel Steering Fault
If the Nose Wheel Steering ( NWS ) is lost for taxiing, the flight crew can steer the aircraft
with differential braking technique. If the flight crew does not have
experience with this technique, he should preferably request a towing
to return to the gate. The flight crew can request the towing early
in approach, if the failure has been triggered in flight.
Loss of Braking
GENERAL
The [MEM]  LOSS OF BRAKING  enables the flight crew to
manually activate the alternate braking mode without the antiskid
function in the case of:
A failure of
the normal braking mode, and
A failure of
the automatic switching from normal braking mode to the alternate
braking mode.
Ultimately,
if the alternate braking mode without antiskid fails, the [MEM]  LOSS OF BRAKING  requests the
use of the parking brake to stop the aircraft.  The [MEM]  LOSS OF BRAKING  must be applied only if the
flight crew does not perceive any effect on the deceleration when
applying manual braking. The [MEM]  LOSS OF BRAKING  can be applied after the  PF  took over the autobrake (if used) during a  RTO  or the landing roll, or during the taxi.
On wet/contaminated runways, the flight crew must keep in mind that
the felt deceleration may be lower than on a dry runway. On wet/contaminated
runways, the pilot may feel the antiskid cycling with a small deceleration
rate. As per design, the antiskid cycling leads from time to time
to short periods of brakes release to avoid wheel locking. In addition,
when the reverse thrust is reduced from REV MAX to REV IDLE, the flight
crew should be prepared to perceive a change in the felt deceleration.
In these conditions, the undue application of the [MEM]  LOSS OF BRAKING  can affect the
landing performance.
The procedure associated with
the [MEM]  LOSS OF BRAKING  memory
item results in:
The loss of
the nosewheel steering: Aircraft directional control can only be ensured
by means of the rudder at high speed (since rudder efficiency decreases
with the aircraft speed) and differential braking (if recovered)
The loss of
the antiskid function.
PROCEDURE
Use of Reverse thrust
If needed, full
reverse thrust may be used until coming to a complete stop. Below  70 , when the flight crew considers that the aircraft can stop on the
runway, the flight crew should set idle reverse thrust.
Unless required
due to an emergency, it is recommended to avoid the use of high level
of reverse thrust at low speed in order to avoid engine stall and
excessive  EGT .
A/SKID  & N/W  STRG  OFF
In order to successfully revert
to alternate braking, it is important to sequence the actions in three
steps. The  PF  should:
Release the
brake pedals
Request the  PM  to set the  A/SKID & N/W STRG  to OFF
Press the brake
pedals, only after the  PM  has set the  A/SKID &
N/W STRG  to OFF. The  ABCU  automatically limits the
brake pressure to  1000 . Monitor the brake pressure
on the BRAKES  PRESS  indicator.
Parking Brake
If still no
braking, use short successive parking brake applications to stop the
aircraft
Brake onset
asymmetry may be felt at each parking brake application
If possible,
delay the use of parking brake until low speed, to reduce the risk
of tire burst and lateral control difficulties.
Wheel Tire Damage Suspected
GENERAL
The flight crew must apply the
WHEEL TIRE DAMAGE SUSPECTED procedure in the case of suspicion of
damage on one or several tires.
The crew may suspect tire damaged
based on several indications. This include, but are not limited to:
Information
from the  ATC  of the presence of tire debris on the runway,
A bang noise
during the takeoff roll or just after takeoff,
A bang noise may not
necessarily indicate tire damages. A bang noise may also have others
origins (e.g. engine, nose landing gear retraction).
A non-commanded
sudden yaw noticed during the takeoff roll,
Directional deviation
may also come from lateral gusts during the takeoff run.
The
WHEEL
TIRE LO
PR
alert triggered after takeoff,
The
WHEEL
TIRE LO
PR
alert may not trigger in all cases as the
tire debris may have also damaged the tire pressure sensor.
The  WHEEL
SD  page showing amber  XX  for the  tire pressure indication  on one or several wheels,
The tire debris may
have affected other tire pressure sensors (or associated wiring) so
amber  XX  may be displayed
for other wheels than the damaged ones.
The aircraft
has other damages (brakes, slats/flaps, etc.).
Depending on the situation,
one or several of the above factors may help the flight crew in the
decision to apply the procedure.
PROCEDURE
FOR LANDING
Damage on one or more tires has an impact
on the landing distance. The performance impact of a burst tire is
equivalent to a brake released. The flight crew must assess the number
of damaged tires and compute the impact on the landing distance with
the  EFB .
The flight crew must select
the appropriate failure case:
ONE BRK RELEASE
failure case if one tire is damaged
TWO BRK RELEASE
failure case if more than one tire is damaged.
FOR RUNWAY VACATION AND TAXI
After landing, before the taxi
in, it is necessary to assess the exact condition of the wheels and
landing gear.  To do so, the flight crew must
ask for an inspection of the landing gear before the taxi is initiated
and make sure the condition of the affected wheels is in accordance
with FCOM limitations.  For more information,  , and  .
EMER DESCENT
The flight crew should initiate an emergency descent if they identify
a depressurization event.
The flight crew can identify
the depressurization event based on:
A cabin altitude
and rate of climb that are excessive and not controllable, or
The triggering
of the
CAB PR  EXCESS CAB ALT
alert, or
When all the
oxygen masks drop down in the cabin, which is triggered by an independent
pressure switch (This does not include the partial extension of the
oxygen masks in the cabin due to the mechanical failure of some oxygen
containers).
The cabin crew should inform
the flight crew when the oxygen masks drop down in the cabin.
By flight
crew decision, an emergency descent may be initiated for any other
reason of urgency.
The flight crew should perform
the actions of the  EMER  DESCENT in two steps:
First step:
Apply the memory items
Second step:
Perform the read-&-do procedure ( ECAM  or  QRH ).
During the first step, the  PM  should focus on monitoring the  FMA  to ensure
that the  PF  had correctly established the aircraft in descent.  During
the second step, the  PF  should adjust the settings.  To initiate the emergency descent, the
use of  AP  and  A/THR
is highly recommended.  At high flight levels, the flight crew
should extend the speed brakes  while monitoring the  VLS . This is in order  to avoid the activation of the angle of attack
protection which may result in the retraction of the speed brakes
and in  AP  disconnection.
When in IDLE thrust,
high speed and with speed brake extended, the rate of descent is approximately  7000 . To descend from  390  to  100 , it takes approximately  4  and  40 .
The flight
crew  should be aware that the
MORA
displayed on  ND  is the highest  MORA  value
within a radius of  40  around the aircraft.
The flight crew should suspect
structural damage in case of a loud bang, or high cabin vertical speed.
If the flight crew suspects structural damage, apply both of the following:
Set the  SPEED/MACH  to SPEED, to prevent an increase in the  IAS , or to reduce the speed. This action minimizes the stress on aircraft
structure
Carefully use
the speed brakes, to avoid additional stress on aircraft structure.
If the cabin altitude goes above  14000 , the flight crew must press the  MASK MAN ON .  When it is
obvious that the cabin altitude will exceed  14000 , the flight
crew could press the  MASK MAN ON , before the cabin altitude
reaches  14000 .  The  TCAS  mode selector must remain on the  TA / RA  position. Avoidance of collision has the priority, even if it requires
a temporary interruption of the descent maneuver. The  TA / RA
TCAS  mode enables a maximum protection
against collision.
Finally, subsequent to an emergency
descent, once the oxygen masks are removed, the flight crew should
perform all of the following:
Close the oxygen
mask stowage compartment
Press the PRESS
TO RESET oxygen control slide, to deactivate the mask microphone,
and to cut off the oxygen.
Below  100 , the flight crew
should limit the rate of descent to approximately  1000 , except during the approach phase.
EMER DESCENT - Memory Items
Introduction
Introduction
The typical cases, which may require an emergency evacuation, are
an uncontrollable fire, smoke/fumes...
These situations may occur during
taxi or following a rejected takeoff or after landing. Their management
require good crew coordination to cope with a high workload situation:
In the case
of a rejected takeoff, the Captain calls "STOP". This confirms
that the Captain has controls
In all other
cases, the Captain calls "I HAVE CONTROL" to state the control
hand over.
As soon
as the aircraft is stopped, and the parking brake is set, the Captain
notifies the cabin crew. The flight crew applies the associated procedures
if any, and notify the  ATC  about the situation.  At any time, if the captain estimates
that lives are at risk, the captain should call for the [ QRH ]
EMER
EVAC  procedure.
Evacuation Procedure
Evacuation Procedure
The tasksharing is defined as
follows:
The  F/O  carries out the [ QRH ]
EMER
EVAC  procedure actions until the evacuation
decision point,
The Captain
builds up his/her decision to evacuate depending on the circumstances.
The flight crew should communicate
any intentions or request to the  ATC .  On ground
with engines stopped, only the right dome light is operational and
the three positions ( BRT , DIM, OFF) of the  DOME  remain available, allowing the [ QRH ]
EMER
EVAC  procedure completion.
Some items need to be highlighted:
The flight crew
must ensure that the differential pressure (Delta P) is equal to 0.  When automatic pressure
control is operative, the flight crew can rely on the  CPC , and the Delta P check is therefore not applicable.  If the automatic pressure
control systems fail during flight, the
CAB PR  SYS 1+2 FAULT
alert requires to set the  MAN V/S CTL  to FULL
UP position during final approach to cancel any residual cabin pressure.
However, since the residual pressure sensor indicator (installed in
the cabin door) is inhibited when slides are in the armed position,
the [ QRH ]
EMER
EVAC  procedure requires
an additional Delta P check.
At least one automatic cabin
pressure control system must be operative at departure. Therefore,
the Delta P check does not apply to the case of an emergency evacuation
following a rejected takeoff.
"CABIN
CREW ( PA )…ALERT" reminds the captain to alert the
cabin crew of a situation that may lead to an evacuation (In the case
of  RTO , this is done during the  RTO  flow pattern).
This action informs the cabin crew that the flight crew is still in
control of the situation. In some situations, this will avoid any
unwanted or unnecessary evacuation initiated by the cabin crew.
The flight
crew will keep in mind that as long as the evacuation order is not
triggered, the flight crew may defer or cancel the passengers' evacuation.
As soon as the evacuation order is triggered, this decision is irreversible.  "If
evacuation required" is the decision gate for the captain to
launch the evacuation.
"EVACUATION...INITIATE"
corresponds to the following actions performed by the captain:
Notifies the
cabin crew to start the evacuation
Activates the
EVAC
COMMAND
Advises  ATC  if required.
This will be done preferably
in this order for a clear understanding by the cabin crew.  When the
aircraft is on battery power, the flight crew seats must be mechanically
operated.  "If evacuation not required", the flight crew should notify
the cabin and the  ATC  about the situation.
Tasksharing
Tasksharing
When applying the [ QRH ]
EMER
EVAC  procedure, the  F/O  can set the  ENG MASTER s to OFF and push the  FIRE , without any confirmation from the Captain.
EMER LANDING
In some rare cases, the loss
of all engines occurs at a very low height above ground level, and
there is not sufficient time to attempt an engine relight. Therefore,
the flight crew may not be able to apply the
ENG  ALL ENGINES
FAILURE
procedure. The flight crew must use
the remaining time to fly the aircraft to an appropriate landing spot,
and to prepare the aircraft for touchdown (ditching or forced landing).
The EMER LANDING procedure is provided in the  QRH  close
to the EMER EVAC procedure.
The EMER LANDING procedure provides
the flight crew with the following items and actions to perform, for
the best possible touchdown:
The landing
gear position
The slats/flaps
configuration
The speed
The pitch attitude,
in the case of ditching.
Flight crew actions that are
considered as basic airmanship (notify the  ATC , notify
the cabin crew, etc.) are not included in the EMER LANDING procedure.
WHEN TO APPLY THE EMER LANDING PROCEDURE
The flight crew must rapidly
decide to apply either the
ENG  ALL ENGINES FAILURE
procedure, or the EMER LANDING procedure, depending on
their assessment of the situation.
To make their decision, the
flight crew should take all the following parameters into account:
The aircraft
altitude
The remaining
time before touchdown
The rate of
descent
The flight crew
workload
The weather
conditions
The suitable
landing surface options
The technical
state of the aircraft, etc.
Low Energy
General
The "SPEED, SPEED, SPEED" aural
alert announces a low energy situation. This situation requires a
flight crew action to increase the energy.  For more information,  .
Low Energy Recovery
Increase the thrust and/or adjust the
pitch depending on the situation, until the aural alert stops.
ADR/IRS FAULT
Each  ADIRS  has two
parts ( ADR  and  IRS ), that may fail independently
of each other. Additionally the  IRS  part may fail totally
or may be available in  ATT  mode.
Single NAV ADR FAULT or NAV IRS FAULT
are simple procedures, and only require action on the switching panel
as indicated by the  ECAM .
Dual  NAV
ADR  or  NAV
IRS  failures cause the loss of  AP ,  FD  and  A/THR  and flight controls revert to  ALTN  law.
Due to
the low probability of a triple  ADR  failure, the associated
procedure is not displayed on the  ECAM . In this case, the
crew must refer to  [QRH] ADR 1+2+3 FAULT .
There
is no procedure for  IRS  1 + 2 + 3 failure but the  ECAM  status page displays the approach procedure and inoperative
systems. In this unlikely event, the standby instruments are the only
attitude, altitude, speed and heading references.
To switch off an  ADR , the flight crew must use the  ADR . Do not use the rotary
selector, because this would also cut off the electrical supply to
the  IR  part.
ADR/IRS FAULT
Each  ADIRS  has two
parts ( ADR  and  IRS ), that may fail independently
of each other. Additionally the  IRS  part may fail totally
or may be available in  ATT  mode.
Single NAV ADR FAULT or NAV IRS FAULT are simple procedures, and
only require action on the switching panel as indicated by the  ECAM .
Dual NAV ADR or NAV IRS failures cause
the loss of  AP ,  FD  and  A/THR  and
the flight controls revert to  ALTN  law.
In the case of a triple  ADR  failure,  AP ,  FD  and  A/THR  are lost
and the flight controls revert to  ALTN  law. The
NAV
ADR 1+2+3 FAULT  alert is triggered
and the  ECAM  procedure requires that the 3  ADR s be switched OFF, to replace the  PFD 's normal speed
scale and altitude indication by the  BUSS  and  GPS  altitude information.  There
is no procedure for  IRS  1 + 2 + 3 failure but the  ECAM  status page displays the approach procedure and inoperative
systems. In this unlikely event, the standby instruments are the only
attitude, altitude, speed and heading references.
To switch off an  ADR , the flight crew must use the  ADR . Do not use the rotary
selector, because this would also cut off the electrical supply to
the  IR  part.
ADR/IRS FAULT
Each  ADIRS  has two
parts ( ADR  and  IRS ), that may fail independently
of each other. Additionally the  IRS  part may fail totally
or may be available in  ATT  mode.
Single NAV ADR FAULT or NAV IRS FAULT are simple procedures, and
only require action on the switching panel as indicated by the  ECAM .
Dual NAV ADR or NAV IRS failures cause
the loss of  AP ,  FD  and  A/THR  and
the flight controls revert to  ALTN  law.
In the case of a triple  ADR  failure,  AP ,  FD  and  A/THR  are lost
and the flight controls revert to  ALTN  law. The
NAV
ADR 1+2+3 FAULT  alert is triggered
and the  ECAM  procedure requires to switch OFF the 3  ADR s and to press the  BKUP SPD/ALT  in order to display
the  BUSS  and GPS altitude information.
There is no procedure for  IRS  1 + 2 + 3 failure but the  ECAM  status page displays the
approach procedure and inoperative systems. In this unlikely event,
the standby instruments are the only attitude, altitude, speed and
heading references.
To switch off an  ADR , the flight crew must use the  ADR . Do not use
the rotary selector, because this would also cut off the electrical
supply to the  IR  part.
ADR/IRS FAULT
Each  ADIRS  has two
parts ( ADR  and  IRS ), that may fail independently
of each other. Additionally the  IRS  part may fail totally
or may be available in  ATT  mode.
Single NAV ADR FAULT or NAV IRS FAULT are simple procedures, and
only require action on the switching panel as indicated by the  ECAM .
Dual NAV ADR or NAV IRS failures cause
the loss of  AP ,  FD  and  A/THR  and
the flight controls revert to  ALTN  law.
In the case of a triple  ADR  failure,  AP ,  FD  and  A/THR  are lost
and the flight controls revert to  ALTN  law. The
NAV
ADR 1+2+3 FAULT  alert is triggered
and the  ECAM  procedure requires to switch OFF the 3  ADR s and to press the  BKUP SPD/ALT  in order to display
the  DBUS  and GPS altitude information.
There is no procedure for  IRS  1 + 2 + 3 failure but the  ECAM  status page displays the
approach procedure and inoperative systems. In this unlikely event,
the standby instruments are the only attitude, altitude, speed and
heading references.
To switch off an  ADR , the flight crew must use the  ADR . Do not use the rotary
selector, because this would also cut off the electrical supply to
the  IR  part.
Unreliable Airspeed Indications
Preface
The  ADR s detect most
of the failures affecting the airspeed or altitude indications. These
failures lead to:
Lose the associated
speed or altitude indications in the cockpit
Trigger the
associated  ECAM  alerts.
However, there may be cases
where an airspeed and/or altitude output is erroneous, while the  ADR s do not detect it as erroneous. In such a case, no  ECAM  alert is triggered and the cockpit indications may appear
to be normal whereas they are actually false. Flight crews must have
in mind the typical symptoms associated with such cases in order to
detect this situation early and apply the "UNRELIABLE SPEED INDICATION"  QRH  procedure.
Main Reasons for Erroneous Airspeed/Altitude Data
The most probable reason for
erroneous airspeed and/or altitude information is an obstruction of
the pitot and/or static probes. Depending on how the probe(s) is obstructed,
the effects on cockpit indications differ.
It is highly unlikely that the aircraft probes will be obstructed
at the same time, to the same degree and in the same way. Therefore,
the first effect of erroneous airspeed/altitude data in the cockpit
will most probably be a discrepancy between the various indications
( CAPT
PFD ,  F/O
PFD  and  STBY  instruments).
Consequences of Obstructed Pitot Tubes or Static Probes
All the aircraft systems which
use anemometric data, have built-in fault accommodation logics. The
fault accommodation logics rely on a voting principle: When the data
provided by one source diverges from the average value, the systems
automatically reject this source and continue to operate normally
using the remaining two sources. The flight controls system and the
flight guidance system both use this voting principle.
Normal situation
Each  ELAC  receives
speed information from the three  ADR s and compares the
three values. The  ELAC s do not use the pressure altitude.
Each  FAC  receives speed and pressure altitude information
from the three  ADR s and compares the three values.
One  ADR  output is erroneous and the two remaining
are correct
The  ELAC s and the  FAC  and/or  FMGC  eliminate the erroneous  ADR .  If one  ADR  deviates, and if
this  ADR  is used to display the speed information on either
the CAPT or F/O  PFD , a
NAV  IAS DISCREPANCY
and/or a
NAV  ADR DISAGREE
ECAM  caution is triggered. Furthermore, the
autoland capability is downgraded to CAT 3 SINGLE.
Two  ADR  outputs are erroneous, but different, and
the remaining  ADR  is correct, or if all three  ADR s are erroneous, but different :
Both the  AP  and  A/THR  disconnect. The  ELAC s trigger the
NAV  ADR DISAGREE
ECAM  caution.  The flight controls revert to alternate law without high and low
speed protection.
On both  PFD s:
The
SPD LIM
flag appears
No  VLS , no  VSW  and no  VMAX  are displayed
This situation is latched for
the remainder of the flight, until the  ELAC s are reset
on ground, without any hydraulic pressure.  However, if the anomaly is only transient, the  AP  and
the  A/THR  can be re-engaged when the disagree disappears.
One  ADR  is correct, but the other two  ADR s provide the same erroneous output, or if all three  ADR s provide consistent and erroneous data :
The systems reject the correct  ADR  and continue to operate using the two erroneous but consistent  ADR s. The flight crew can encounter such a situation when,
for example, two or all three pitot tubes are obstructed at the same
time, to the same degree, and in the same way. (Flight through a cloud
of volcanic ash, takeoff with two pitots obstructed by foreign matter
(mud, insects)).
Example of Failure Cases and their Consequences
The following chart provides
a non-exhaustive list of the failure cases and their consequences
on airspeed and altitude indications. It should be noted that the
cases described below cover situations where probes (e.g. pitot) are
totally obstructed. There can be multiple intermediate configurations
with similar, but not exactly identical consequences.
FAILURE CASE
CONSEQUENCES
Water accumulated
due to heavy rain. Drain holes unobstructed.
Transient speed drop
until water drains.  IAS  fluctuations.  IAS  step
drop and gradual return to normal.
Water accumulated
due to heavy rain. Drain holes obstructed.
Permanent  IAS  drop.
Ice accretion due
to pitot heat failure, or transient pitot blocked due to severe icing.
Unobstructed drain holes.
Total pressure leaks
towards static pressure.  IAS  drop until obstruction cleared/fluctuation,
if transient erratic  A/THR  is transient.
Ice accretion due
to pitot heat failure, or pitot obstruction due to foreign objects.
Obstructed drain holes.
Total pressure blocked.
Constant  IAS  in level flight, until obstruction is cleared.  In climb,  IAS  increases. In descent,  IAS  decreases.
Abnormal  AP / FD  and  A/THR  behavior :
AP / FD  pitch up in OP  CLB  to hold target  IAS .
AP / FD  pitch down in OP  DES  to hold target  IAS
Total obstruction
of static ports on ground.
Static pressure blocked
at airfield level. Normal indications during  T/O  roll.
After lift-off altitude remains constant.  IAS  decreases,
after lift-off.  IAS  decreases, when aircraft climbs.  IAS  increases, when aircraft descends.
The above table clearly illustrates that no single rule can be given
to conclusively identify all possible erroneous airspeed/altitude
indications cases.
In-Service Experience of High Altitude Pitot Obstructions
Analysis of the in-service events
shows that:
The majority
of unreliable speed events at low altitude are permanent situations,
due to the obstruction of pitot probes by rain, severe icing, or foreign
objects (refer to the table above).
At high altitude,
typically above  250 , the cases of unreliable speed
situation are mostly a temporary phenomenon: They are usually due
to contamination of the pitots, by water or ice, in particular meteorological
conditions. In-service experience shows that such a contamination
typically disappears after few minutes, allowing to recover normal
speed indications.
Potential Effects on the Barometric Altitude
If the barometric altitude is
unreliable, the Flight Path Vector ( FPV ) and the Vertical
Speed ( V/S ) are affected.  In addition, the  ATC  transponder may transmit an incorrect
altitude to  ATC  or to other aircraft, which can lead to
confusion. Therefore, the flight crew should advise  ATC  of the situation without delay.  Because the barometric altitude may be erroneous, the Autopilot ( AP ) may not be able to maintain accurately the level flight.
Unreliable Airspeed Indications
Preface
The  ADR s detect most
of the failures affecting the airspeed or altitude indications. These
failures lead to:
Lose the associated
speed or altitude indications in the cockpit
Trigger the
associated  ECAM  alerts.
However,
there may be cases where an airspeed and/or altitude output is erroneous,
while the  ADR s do not detect it as erroneous. The Speed
Monitoring Function aims at handling such situation,(  ).  This function is associated to the  ECAM  alerts
NAV
AIR SPD STS CHANGED
and
NAV  ALL SPD UNCERTAIN  ,(  ). These alerts provide
the validity status of each speed source ( ADR  or Backup
Speed) with recommended speed source selection. In addition, the crew
can retrieve this information through the  ECAM  STATUS page
when one or more speed sources are declared invalid.
These  ECAM  alerts may advise
the crew to select the  DBUS  on one or both side ( ). When the  DBUS  is
activated, characteristic speeds are still displayed so that the crew
can visualize flight envelope boundaries. Characteristic speeds are
computed using most relevant altitude and Mach information. In case
of
NAV  ALL SPD UNCERTAIN  ,  VSW  is no longer computed, however
STALL WARNING
alert remains fully
functional.  The
NAV  ALL SPD UNCERTAIN
alert leads to apply the "UNRELIABLE SPEED INDICATION"  QRH  procedure.
Main Reasons for Erroneous Airspeed/Altitude Data
The most probable reason for
erroneous airspeed and/or altitude information is an obstruction of
the pitot and/or static probes. Depending on how the probe(s) is obstructed,
the effects on cockpit indications differ.
It is highly unlikely that the aircraft probes will be obstructed
at the same time, to the same degree and in the same way. Therefore,
the first effect of erroneous airspeed/altitude data in the cockpit
will most probably be a discrepancy between the various indications
( CAPT
PFD ,  F/O
PFD  and  STBY  instruments).
Consequences of Obstructed Pitot Tubes or Static Probes
All the aircraft systems which
use anemometric data, have built-in fault accommodation logics. The
fault accommodation logics rely on a voting principle: When the data
provided by one source diverges from the average value, the systems
automatically reject this source and continue to operate normally
using the remaining two sources. The flight controls system and the
flight guidance system both use this voting principle.
Normal situation
Each  ELAC  receives
speed information from the three  ADR s and compares the
three values. The  ELAC s do not use the pressure altitude.
Each  FAC  receives speed and
pressure altitude information from the three  ADR s and compares
the three values.  FAC  is also in charge of the Speed Monitoring
Function and backup speed computation.
One  ADR  output is erroneous and the two remaining
are correct
The  ELAC s and the  FAC  and/or  FMGC  eliminate the erroneous  ADR .  If one ADR speed deviates, the
NAV  AIR SPD STS CHANGED
ECAM  alert
is triggered. This alert provides the validity status of each speed
source (including Backup speed) and the most appropriate speed source
configuration. Furthermore, the autoland capability is downgraded
to CAT 3 SINGLE.
Two  ADR  outputs are erroneous, but different, and
the remaining  ADR  is correct, or if all three  ADR s are erroneous, but different :
Both the  AP  and  A/THR  disconnect. The Speed Monitoring Function rejects the erroneous  ADR  thanks to mutual comparison between speed sources and their
individual monitoring. The  FAC  triggers the
NAV  AIR SPD STS CHANGED
ECAM  alert
associated with the validity status of each speed source (including
Backup speed). The erroneous  ADR  are indicated as  FAULT . The crew is advised to
change the speed source ( ADR  and/or Backup Speed) in accordance
with the situation.
The flight controls revert to
alternate law without high and low speed protection.
One  ADR  is correct, but the other two  ADR s provide the same erroneous output :
The flight crew can encounter such a
situation when, for example, two pitot tubes are obstructed at the
same time, to the same degree, and in the same way (flight through
a cloud of volcanic ash, takeoff with two pitots obstructed by foreign
matter (mud, insects)).  The Speed
Monitoring Function rejects the two erroneous  ADR s thanks
to mutual comparison between speed sources and their individual monitoring.
The
NAV  AIR SPD STS CHANGED
ECAM  alert is triggered. The two erroneous  ADR s are declared  FAULT . The crew is advised to
change the speed source selection ( ADR  and/or backup speed)
in accordance with the situation.
THREE  ADR S PROVIDE CONSISTENT AND ERRONEOUS DATA
:
The flight crew can encounter such a
situation when, for example, all three pitot tubes are obstructed
at the same time, to the same degree, and in the same way (flight
through a cloud of volcanic ash, takeoff with two pitots obstructed
by foreign matter (mud, insects)).  The Speed Monitoring Function detects
the simultaneous and consistent fast decrease of speeds and rejects
the three  ADR s. The
NAV  AIR SPD STS CHANGED
ECAM  alert is triggered and the three erroneous  ADR s are declared  FAULT . The crew is advised to activate the  DBUS .
Example of Failure Cases and their Consequences
The following chart provides
a non-exhaustive list of the failure cases and their consequences
on airspeed and altitude indications. It should be noted that the
cases described below cover situations where probes (e.g. pitot) are
totally obstructed. There can be multiple intermediate configurations
with similar, but not exactly identical consequences.
FAILURE CASE
CONSEQUENCES
Water accumulated
due to heavy rain. Drain holes unobstructed.
Transient speed drop
until water drains.  IAS  fluctuations.  IAS  step
drop and gradual return to normal.
Water accumulated
due to heavy rain. Drain holes obstructed.
Permanent  IAS  drop.
Ice accretion due
to pitot heat failure, or transient pitot blocked due to severe icing.
Unobstructed drain holes.
Total pressure leaks
towards static pressure.  IAS  drop until obstruction cleared/fluctuation,
if transient erratic  A/THR  is transient.
Ice accretion due
to pitot heat failure, or pitot obstruction due to foreign objects.
Obstructed drain holes.
Total pressure blocked.
Constant  IAS  in level flight, until obstruction is cleared.  In climb,  IAS  increases. In descent,  IAS  decreases.
Abnormal  AP / FD  and  A/THR  behavior :
AP / FD  pitch up in OP  CLB  to hold target  IAS .
AP / FD  pitch down in OP  DES  to hold target  IAS
Total obstruction
of static ports on ground.
Static pressure blocked
at airfield level. Normal indications during  T/O  roll.
After lift-off altitude remains constant.  IAS  decreases,
after lift-off.  IAS  decreases, when aircraft climbs.  IAS  increases, when aircraft descends.
The above table clearly illustrates that no single rule can be given
to conclusively identify all possible erroneous airspeed/altitude
indications cases.
In-Service Experience of High Altitude Pitot Obstructions
Analysis of the in-service events
shows that:
The majority
of unreliable speed events at low altitude are permanent situations,
due to the obstruction of pitot probes by rain, severe icing, or foreign
objects (refer to the table above).
At high altitude,
typically above  250 , the cases of unreliable speed
situation are mostly a temporary phenomenon: They are usually due
to contamination of the pitots, by water or ice, in particular meteorological
conditions. In-service experience shows that such a contamination
typically disappears after few minutes, allowing to recover normal
speed indications.
Potential Effects on the Barometric Altitude
If the barometric altitude is
unreliable, the Flight Path Vector ( FPV ) and the Vertical
Speed ( V/S ) are affected.  In addition, the  ATC  transponder may transmit an incorrect
altitude to  ATC  or to other aircraft, which can lead to
confusion. Therefore, the flight crew should advise  ATC  of the situation without delay.  Because the barometric altitude may be erroneous, the Autopilot ( AP ) may not be able to maintain accurately the level flight.
"Unreliable Speed Indication" QRH Procedure
Introduction
The "UNRELIABLE SPEED INDICATION"
procedure has two objectives:
To fly the aircraft
To identify
and isolate the affected  ADR (s).
It includes the following
steps:
Memory items
(if necessary)
Flight path
stabilization
Troubleshooting
and isolation
Flight using
pitch/thrust references.
When to Apply this Procedure?
The flight crew should consider
applying the “UNRELIABLE SPEED INDICATION” procedure when:
The “ ADR CHECK PROC... APPLY ” is displayed on  ECAM , for example due to the
NAV  ADR DISAGREE
alert, or
The flight crew
suspects an erroneous indication, without any  ECAM  alert.
The flight crew can suspect
an erroneous speed/altitude indication, in the following cases:
A speed discrepancy
(between  ADR  1, 2, 3 and standby indications)
Fluctuating
or unexpected changes of the indicated airspeed or altitude
Abnormal correlation between
the basic flight parameters (pitch, thrust, airspeed, altitude, and
vertical speed indications). For example:
The altitude
does not increase, whereas there is an important nose-up pitch and
high thrust
The  IAS  increases, whereas there is an important nose-up pitch
The  IAS  decreases, whereas there is an important nose-down pitch
The  IAS  decreases, whereas there is a nose-down pitch and the aircraft is
descending.
An abnormal
behavior of the  AP / FD  and/or the  A/THR
The STALL warning triggers or
the OVERSPEED warning triggers, and this is in contradiction with
the indicated airspeeds. In this case:
Rely on the
STALL warning. Erroneous airspeed data does not affect the STALL warning,
because the STALL warning is based on  AOA  data.
Depending on
the situation, the OVERSPEED warning may be false or justified. When
the OVERSPEED  VFE  warning triggers, the appearance of aircraft
buffet is a symptom that the airspeed is indeed excessive.
The barometric
altitude is not consistent with the  RA  height (when the  RA  is displayed)
The aerodynamic
noise reduces whereas the indicated airspeed increases, or vice versa
In approach,
it is not possible to extend the landing gear using the normal landing
gear system.
Flight crew coordination is
important. The  PM  should confirm any discrepancy:
Between the
standby airspeed indication and the speed indication on  PM 's  PFD
Between  PM 's  PFD  and  PF 's  PFD .
How to Apply this Procedure?
Memory Items
The flight crew must ensure
a safe flight path. If the safe conduct of the flight is affected,
the flight crew applies the memory items.
The memory items enable to rapidly establish safe flight conditions
for a limited period of time in all phases of flight and in all aircraft
configurations (weight and slats/flaps).
The flight crew must apply the
memory items, if the flight crew have a doubt on their ability to
safely fly the aircraft in the short term with the current parameters:
The flight crew
has lost situation awareness, or
The current
pitch and thrust are not appropriate for the current flight conditions,
or
The aircraft
has an unexpected flight path for the current flight conditions.
When the  PF  has stabilized
the target pitch and thrust values, the flight crew applies the  QRH  procedure without delay. The flight crew must apply the  QRH  procedure without delay, because flying with the memory
pitch/thrust values for an extended period of time can lead to exceed
the aircraft speed limits.
The flight crew must respect
the STALL warning.
Flight Path Stabilization
According to the procedure,
the flight crew can:
Level off the
aircraft then keep the flight path stabilized, or
Keep the flight
path stabilized.
If the flight crew has applied
the memory items, then the flight crew must level off the aircraft
to stabilize the flight path.
The objective of these two conditions
is to have a stabilized flight path to start the troubleshooting.
In all cases, the initial actions
are to disconnect the automations. This prevents the  FG  to use erroneous data for the computation of the aircraft guidance.
Initial disconnection of the automation can prevent:
Erroneous orders,
if  AP / FD  are engaged
Erroneous thrust
change, if  A/THR  is engaged.
Example of Failure Cases and
their Consequences  .
If the  A/THR  automatically
disconnects, the Thrust Lock function activates. The thrust is locked
at its level at the moment of the disconnection until the flight crew
moves the levers. The thrust may be locked at idle, due to normal  A/THR  behavior, or due to the use of erroneous data.
To level
off the aircraft, the flight crew uses Pitch/Thrust tables of the  QRH , Pitch/Thrust Tables.  The
GPS
altitude can be used
to confirm that the aircraft is maintaining level flight.
A difference may exist between
the barometric altitude and the
GPS
altitude.
The
GPS
altitude remains available on the  MCDU  GPS MONITOR page.
Troubleshooting and Isolation
In order to identify and isolate
the faulty  ADR (s), the flight crew must crosscheck speed
and altitude indications on  CAPT
PFD ,  F/O
PFD  and  STBY  instruments.  To help the identification of the affected  ADR (s), the flight crew can use the Pitch/Thrust tables of
the  QRH  procedure.  The Pitch/Thrust
tables provide the resulting speed for a given aircraft weight and
flight level.
Do not instinctively
reject an outlier  ADR .
When one indication differs from the
others, the flight crew may be tempted to reject the outlier information.
However, the flight crew should be aware that two or even all three  ADR s can provide identical but erroneous data.  When the flight crew has identified the
affected  ADR (s), the flight crew must turn off the affected  ADR (s). As a consequence this triggers the corresponding  ECAM  alerts. The flight crew must apply the associated procedures
to address all the consequences on the various aircraft systems.
If the flight
crew identifies at least one  ADR  to be reliable: the flight
crew must use it
If the flight
crew cannot identify the affected  ADR (s) or if all speed
indications remain unreliable, the flight crew must turn two  ADR s off to prevent the flight control laws from using two
consistent but unreliable  ADR  data. The flight crew must
keep one  ADR  on. For flight continuation, the flight crew
uses the Pitch/Thrust tables of the  QRH .
Specific Case of Radome Collapse
A radome collapse may induce air parameters
deviations and temporary air speed fluctuations that the flight crew
can detect. These effects may happen when the aircraft attitude varies,
or when the aircraft configuration is changed due to a modification
of the airflow around the probes.  As a result, the flight crew
should only assess the reliability of the air data sources when the
aircraft trajectory and configurations are stable.
Flying Technique
Pitch/Thrust Tables
When flying the aircraft with
unreliable speed and/or altitude indications, it is recommended to
change only one flight parameter at a time (i.e. speed, altitude or
configuration).
If the  FPV  is reliable (i.e. barometric altitude
is reliable), or with the
GPS
altitude information:
Maintain level
flight ( FPV  on the horizon or constant
GPS
altitude)
Adjust thrust
Observe the resulting pitch
attitude, and compare it with the recommended pitch target in the
table:
If the pitch
necessary to maintain level flight is above the pitch target of the
table, the aircraft is slow. Then increase the thrust.
If the pitch
necessary to maintain level flight is below the pitch target of the
table, the aircraft is fast. Then decrease the thrust.
When the pitch required to maintain level off gets close to the table
pitch target, re-adjust thrust to keep this target pitch.  When the conditions are stabilized, the resulting thrust should be
close to the value provided in the table.  This technique enables a fast stabilization of the speed while maintaining
level flight.
To retract (extend) flaps, apply the following technique:
While maintaining
level flight ( FPV  on the horizon or constant  GPS  altitude):
Increase (decrease)
thrust to accelerate (decelerate)
Select flaps
lever one step up (down)
When the pitch
reaches the table pitch target, re-adjust thrust to match the thrust
setting provided in the table.
If the  FPV  is not reliable and the  GPS  altitude information is not available (no means to ensure level
flight):
Adjust pitch and thrust according to  QRH  tables, and wait
for speed stabilization.  Expect a significant time to stabilize the flight path and important
altitude variations during the stabilization.
For the approach, a wide pattern and an early stabilized approach
are recommended.  For the final approach, prefer
a standard  ILS  approach with a  -3
G/S , if available. If the final descent is started with stabilized speed,
on a  -3  flight path with the thrust setting recommended in the
table, the resulting pitch attitude should be close to the recommended
table pitch value. If an adjustment is required, vary the thrust.
"Unreliable Speed Indication" QRH Procedure
Introduction
The "UNRELIABLE SPEED INDICATION"
procedure has two objectives:
To fly the aircraft
To identify
and isolate the affected  ADR (s).
It includes the following
steps:
Memory items
(if necessary)
Flight path
stabilization
Troubleshooting
and isolation
Flight using
pitch/thrust references or the  BUSS  (below  250 ), if the troubleshooting has not enabled to isolate the faulty  ADR (s).
When to Apply this Procedure?
The flight crew should consider
applying the “UNRELIABLE SPEED INDICATION” procedure when:
The “ ADR CHECK PROC... APPLY ” is displayed on  ECAM , for example due to the
NAV  ADR DISAGREE
alert, or
The flight crew
suspects an erroneous indication, without any  ECAM  alert.
The flight crew can suspect
an erroneous speed/altitude indication, in the following cases:
A speed discrepancy
(between  ADR  1, 2, 3 and standby indications)
Fluctuating
or unexpected changes of the indicated airspeed or altitude
Abnormal correlation between
the basic flight parameters (pitch, thrust, airspeed, altitude, and
vertical speed indications). For example:
The altitude
does not increase, whereas there is an important nose-up pitch and
high thrust
The  IAS  increases, whereas there is an important nose-up pitch
The  IAS  decreases, whereas there is an important nose-down pitch
The  IAS  decreases, whereas there is a nose-down pitch and the aircraft is
descending.
An abnormal
behavior of the  AP / FD  and/or the  A/THR
The STALL warning triggers or
the OVERSPEED warning triggers, and this is in contradiction with
the indicated airspeeds. In this case:
Rely on the
STALL warning. Erroneous airspeed data does not affect the STALL warning,
because the STALL warning is based on  AOA  data.
Depending on
the situation, the OVERSPEED warning may be false or justified. When
the OVERSPEED  VFE  warning triggers, the appearance of aircraft
buffet is a symptom that the airspeed is indeed excessive.
The barometric
altitude is not consistent with the  RA  height (when the  RA  is displayed)
The aerodynamic
noise reduces whereas the indicated airspeed increases, or vice versa
In approach,
it is not possible to extend the landing gear using the normal landing
gear system.
Flight crew coordination is
important. The  PM  should confirm any discrepancy:
Between the
standby airspeed indication and the speed indication on  PM 's  PFD
Between  PM 's  PFD  and  PF 's  PFD .
How to Apply this Procedure?
Memory Items
The flight crew must ensure
a safe flight path. If the safe conduct of the flight is affected,
the flight crew applies the memory items.
The memory items enable to rapidly establish safe flight conditions
for a limited period of time in all phases of flight and in all aircraft
configurations (weight and slats/flaps).
The flight crew must apply the
memory items, if the flight crew have a doubt on their ability to
safely fly the aircraft in the short term with the current parameters:
The flight crew
has lost situation awareness, or
The current
pitch and thrust are not appropriate for the current flight conditions,
or
The aircraft
has an unexpected flight path for the current flight conditions.
When the  PF  has stabilized
the target pitch and thrust values, the flight crew applies the  QRH  procedure without delay. The flight crew must apply the  QRH  procedure without delay, because flying with the memory
pitch/thrust values for an extended period of time can lead to exceed
the aircraft speed limits.
The flight crew must respect
the STALL warning.
Flight Path Stabilization
According to the procedure,
the flight crew can:
Level off the
aircraft then keep the flight path stabilized, or
Keep the flight
path stabilized.
If the flight crew has applied
the memory items, then the flight crew must level off the aircraft
to stabilize the flight path.
The objective of these two conditions
is to have a stabilized flight path to start the troubleshooting.
In all cases, the initial actions
are to disconnect the automations. This prevents the  FG  to use erroneous data for the computation of the aircraft guidance.
Initial disconnection of the automation can prevent:
Erroneous orders,
if  AP / FD  are engaged
Erroneous thrust
change, if  A/THR  is engaged.
Example of Failure Cases and
their Consequences  .
If the  A/THR  automatically
disconnects, the Thrust Lock function activates. The thrust is locked
at its level at the moment of the disconnection until the flight crew
moves the levers. The thrust may be locked at idle, due to normal  A/THR  behavior, or due to the use of erroneous data.
To level
off the aircraft, the flight crew uses Pitch/Thrust tables of the  QRH , Pitch/Thrust Tables.  The  GPS  altitude can be used to confirm that the aircraft
is maintaining level flight.
A difference may exist between
the barometric altitude and the  GPS  altitude.
The  GPS  altitude remains available on the  MCDU  GPS MONITOR
page.
Troubleshooting and Isolation
In order to identify and isolate
the faulty  ADR (s), the flight crew must crosscheck speed
and altitude indications on  CAPT
PFD ,  F/O
PFD  and  STBY  instruments.  To help the identification of the affected  ADR (s), the flight crew can use the Pitch/Thrust tables of
the  QRH  procedure.  The Pitch/Thrust
tables provide the resulting speed for a given aircraft weight and
flight level.
Do not instinctively
reject an outlier  ADR .
When one indication differs from the
others, the flight crew may be tempted to reject the outlier information.
However, the flight crew should be aware that two or even all three  ADR s can provide identical but erroneous data.  When the flight crew has identified the
affected  ADR (s), the flight crew must turn off the affected  ADR (s). As a consequence this triggers the corresponding  ECAM  alerts. The flight crew must apply the associated procedures
to address all the consequences on the various aircraft systems.
If the flight
crew identifies at least one  ADR  to be reliable: the flight
crew must use it and turn off affected  ADR (s)
If the flight crew cannot identify
the affected  ADR (s) or if all speed indications remain
unreliable, the flight crew must:
Above  250 , turn two  ADR s off to prevent the flight control laws
from using two consistent but unreliable  ADR  data. The
flight crew must keep one  ADR  on. For flight continuation,
the flight crew uses Pitch/Thrust tables of the  QRH .
Below  250 , turn off all  ADR s then use the  BUSS  for the
flight continuation.
Specific Case of Radome Collapse
A radome collapse may induce air parameters
deviations and temporary air speed fluctuations that the flight crew
can detect. These effects may happen when the aircraft attitude varies,
or when the aircraft configuration is changed due to a modification
of the airflow around the probes.  As a result, the flight crew
should only assess the reliability of the air data sources when the
aircraft trajectory and configurations are stable.
Flying Technique
Pitch/Thrust Tables
When flying the aircraft with
unreliable speed and/or altitude indications, it is recommended to
change only one flight parameter at a time (i.e. speed, altitude or
configuration).
If the  FPV  is reliable (i.e. barometric altitude
is reliable), or with the  GPS  altitude information:
Maintain level
flight ( FPV  on the horizon or constant  GPS  altitude)
Adjust thrust
Observe the resulting pitch
attitude, and compare it with the recommended pitch target in the
table:
If the pitch
necessary to maintain level flight is above the pitch target of the
table, the aircraft is slow. Then increase the thrust.
If the pitch
necessary to maintain level flight is below the pitch target of the
table, the aircraft is fast. Then decrease the thrust.
When the pitch required to maintain level off gets close to the table
pitch target, re-adjust thrust to keep this target pitch.  When the conditions are stabilized, the resulting thrust should be
close to the value provided in the table.  This technique enables a fast stabilization of the speed while maintaining
level flight.
To retract (extend) flaps, apply the following technique:
While maintaining
level flight ( FPV  on the horizon or constant  GPS  altitude):
Increase (decrease)
thrust to accelerate (decelerate)
Select flaps
lever one step up (down)
When the pitch
reaches the table pitch target, re-adjust thrust to match the thrust
setting provided in the table.
If the  FPV  is not reliable and the  GPS  altitude information is not available (no means to ensure level
flight):
Adjust pitch and thrust according to  QRH  tables, and wait
for speed stabilization.  Expect a significant time to stabilize the flight path and important
altitude variations during the stabilization.
Backup Speed Scale (BUSS)
For the description of the  BUSS ,  .
When the  BUSS  is
active:
The  AP / FD  and  A/THR  must be disconnected
The  F/CTL  Laws are in Alternate law
The STALL warning
remains operative
Cabin pressure
must be controlled manually
Depending on
the  ADIRS  standard, the  FPV  can be available
on one or both  PFD s as soon as the flight crew switch off
all  ADR s
Do not use the
HUD
When flying with the  BUSS , do not use the speed brakes.
Flying with speed
brakes extended affects the relationship between the speed and  AOA , and therefore the  BUSS  may provide erroneous
data.
The flight crew adjusts the
pitch and thrust to fly the green area of the speed scale.  The  BUSS  is directly based on the current  AOA . Any longitudinal
input on the stick will induce an  AOA  change, and therefore
will cause the  BUSS  to move. If not, the flight crew must
disregard the  BUSS  and use Pitch/Thrust tables.  When the flight crew turns off all  ADR s, the
NAV  ADR 1+2+3 FAULT
alert triggers. The flight crew apply the associated procedure then,
as requested by the  ECAM , apply the “ALL ADR OFF”  QRH  procedure. This  QRH  procedure provides guidance
to:
Manually control
the cabin pressure
Prepare the
approach and landing.
For approach,
the flight crew should perform an early stabilized approach.  The flight crew should change the aircraft configuration with level
wings.
To retract or to extend flaps,
apply the following technique:
Before retracting
the next flaps configuration, fly the upper part of the green band
Before extending
the next flaps configuration, fly the lower part of the green band.
This technique limits the excursion
in the amber zones when changing the flaps configuration.
"Unreliable Speed Indication" QRH Procedure
Introduction
The "UNRELIABLE SPEED INDICATION"
procedure has two objectives:
To fly the aircraft
To identify
and isolate the affected  ADR (s).
It includes the following
steps:
Memory items
(if necessary)
Flight path
stabilization
Troubleshooting
and isolation
Flight using
pitch/thrust references or the  BUSS  (below  250 ), if the troubleshooting has not enabled to isolate the faulty  ADR (s).
When to Apply this Procedure?
The flight crew should consider
applying the “UNRELIABLE SPEED INDICATION” procedure when:
The “ ADR CHECK PROC... APPLY ” or the " UNREL SPD PROC... APPLY " is displayed on  ECAM , for example due to the
NAV  ADR DISAGREE
alert, or due
ANTI ICE  ALL(CAPT+F/O)(CAPT+STBY)(F/O+STBY)
PITOT
alert
The flight crew
suspects an erroneous indication, without any  ECAM  alert.
The flight crew can suspect
an erroneous speed/altitude indication, in the following cases:
A speed discrepancy
(between  ADR  1, 2, 3 and standby indications)
Fluctuating
or unexpected changes of the indicated airspeed or altitude
Abnormal correlation between
the basic flight parameters (pitch, thrust, airspeed, altitude, and
vertical speed indications). For example:
The altitude
does not increase, whereas there is an important nose-up pitch and
high thrust
The  IAS  increases, whereas there is an important nose-up pitch
The  IAS  decreases, whereas there is an important nose-down pitch
The  IAS  decreases, whereas there is a nose-down pitch and the aircraft is
descending.
An abnormal
behavior of the  AP / FD  and/or the  A/THR
The STALL warning triggers or
the OVERSPEED warning triggers, and this is in contradiction with
the indicated airspeeds. In this case:
Rely on the
STALL warning. Erroneous airspeed data does not affect the STALL warning,
because the STALL warning is based on  AOA  data.
Depending on
the situation, the OVERSPEED warning may be false or justified. When
the OVERSPEED  VFE  warning triggers, the appearance of aircraft
buffet is a symptom that the airspeed is indeed excessive.
The barometric
altitude is not consistent with the  RA  height (when the  RA  is displayed)
The aerodynamic
noise reduces whereas the indicated airspeed increases, or vice versa
In approach,
it is not possible to extend the landing gear using the normal landing
gear system.
Flight crew coordination is
important. The  PM  should confirm any discrepancy:
Between the
standby airspeed indication and the speed indication on  PM 's  PFD
Between  PM 's  PFD  and  PF 's  PFD .
How to Apply this Procedure?
Memory Items
The flight crew must ensure
a safe flight path. If the safe conduct of the flight is affected,
the flight crew applies the memory items.
The memory items enable to rapidly establish safe flight conditions
for a limited period of time in all phases of flight and in all aircraft
configurations (weight and slats/flaps).
The flight crew must apply the
memory items, if the flight crew have a doubt on their ability to
safely fly the aircraft in the short term with the current parameters:
The flight crew
has lost situation awareness, or
The current
pitch and thrust are not appropriate for the current flight conditions,
or
The aircraft
has an unexpected flight path for the current flight conditions.
When the  PF  has stabilized
the target pitch and thrust values, the flight crew applies the  QRH  procedure without delay. The flight crew must apply the  QRH  procedure without delay, because flying with the memory
pitch/thrust values for an extended period of time can lead to exceed
the aircraft speed limits.
The flight crew must respect
the STALL warning.
Flight Path Stabilization
According to the procedure,
the flight crew can:
Level off the
aircraft then keep the flight path stabilized, or
Keep the flight
path stabilized.
If the flight crew has applied
the memory items, then the flight crew must level off the aircraft
to stabilize the flight path.
The objective of these two conditions
is to have a stabilized flight path to start the troubleshooting.
In all cases, the initial actions
are to disconnect the automations. This prevents the  FG  to use erroneous data for the computation of the aircraft guidance.
Initial disconnection of the automation can prevent:
Erroneous orders,
if  AP / FD  are engaged
Erroneous thrust
change, if  A/THR  is engaged.
Example of Failure Cases and
their Consequences  .
If the  A/THR  automatically
disconnects, the Thrust Lock function activates. The thrust is locked
at its level at the moment of the disconnection until the flight crew
moves the levers. The thrust may be locked at idle, due to normal  A/THR  behavior, or due to the use of erroneous data.
Below  250 , the flight crew uses the reversible  BUSS ,  Reversible Backup Speed
Scale (BUSS) .
Above  250 , the flight crew
can:
Use the Pitch/Thrust
tables of the  QRH ,  Pitch/Thrust Tables .
Keep the flight
path stabilized.
The  GPS  altitude
can be used to confirm that the aircraft is maintaining level flight.
A difference may exist
between the barometric altitude and the  GPS  altitude.
When the  BUSS  is
activated, the  GPS  altitude is displayed on the associated  PFD .  The  GPS  altitude remains available
on the  MCDU  GPS MONITOR page.
Troubleshooting and Isolation
In order to identify and isolate
the faulty  ADR (s), the flight crew must crosscheck speed
and altitude indications on  CAPT
PFD ,  F/O
PFD  and  STBY  instruments.
To help the identification of
the affected  ADR (s), the flight crew can use:
The Pitch/Thrust
tables of the  QRH  procedure, or
The reversible  BUSS  when below  250 .
The Pitch/Thrust
tables provide the resulting speed for a given aircraft weight and
flight level.
Do not instinctively
reject an outlier  ADR .
When one indication differs from the
others, the flight crew may be tempted to reject the outlier information.
However, the flight crew should be aware that two or even all three  ADR s can provide identical but erroneous data.  When the flight crew has identified the
affected  ADR (s), the flight crew must turn off the affected  ADR (s). As a consequence this triggers the corresponding  ECAM  alerts. The flight crew must apply the associated procedures
to address all the consequences on the various aircraft systems.
If the flight
crew identifies at least one  ADR  to be reliable: the flight
crew must use it
If the flight crew cannot identify
the affected  ADR (s) or if all speed indications remain
unreliable, the flight crew must turn two  ADR s off to prevent
the flight control laws from using two consistent but unreliable  ADR  data. The flight crew must keep one  ADR  on.
For flight continuation, the flight crew uses:
Above  250 , Pitch/Thrust tables of the  QRH
Below  250 , the  BUSS .
Specific Case of Radome Collapse
A radome collapse may induce air parameters
deviations and temporary air speed fluctuations that the flight crew
can detect. These effects may happen when the aircraft attitude varies,
or when the aircraft configuration is changed due to a modification
of the airflow around the probes.  As a result, the flight crew
should only assess the reliability of the air data sources when the
aircraft trajectory and configurations are stable.
Flying Technique
Pitch/Thrust Tables
When flying the aircraft with
unreliable speed and/or altitude indications, it is recommended to
change only one flight parameter at a time (i.e. speed, altitude or
configuration).
If the  FPV  is reliable (i.e. barometric altitude
is reliable), or with the  GPS  altitude information:
Maintain level
flight ( FPV  on the horizon or constant  GPS  altitude)
Adjust thrust
Observe the resulting pitch
attitude, and compare it with the recommended pitch target in the
table:
If the pitch
necessary to maintain level flight is above the pitch target of the
table, the aircraft is slow. Then increase the thrust.
If the pitch
necessary to maintain level flight is below the pitch target of the
table, the aircraft is fast. Then decrease the thrust.
When the pitch required to maintain level off gets close to the table
pitch target, re-adjust thrust to keep this target pitch.  When the conditions are stabilized, the resulting thrust should be
close to the value provided in the table.  This technique enables a fast stabilization of the speed while maintaining
level flight.
To retract (extend) flaps, apply the following technique:
While maintaining
level flight ( FPV  on the horizon or constant  GPS  altitude):
Increase (decrease)
thrust to accelerate (decelerate)
Select flaps
lever one step up (down)
When the pitch
reaches the table pitch target, re-adjust thrust to match the thrust
setting provided in the table.
If the  FPV  is not reliable and the  GPS  altitude information is not available (no means to ensure level
flight):
Adjust pitch and thrust according to  QRH  tables, and wait
for speed stabilization.  Expect a significant time to stabilize the flight path and important
altitude variations during the stabilization.
Reversible Backup Speed Scale (BUSS)
For the description of the  BUSS ,  .
The Reversible  BUSS  can be activated and deactivated at flight crew discretion:
On  CAPT  side only, or
On  F/O  side only, or
On both sides
at the same time.
The flight
crew adjusts the pitch and thrust to fly the green area of the speed
scale.  The  BUSS  is directly based on the current  AOA . Any longitudinal
input on the stick will induce an  AOA  change, and therefore
will cause the  BUSS  to move. If not, the flight crew must
disregard the  BUSS  and use Pitch/Thrust tables.
When the reversible  BUSS  is active:
The onside  AP / FD  and  A/THR  must be disconnected
The STALL warning
remains operative
Do not use the
HUD
When flying with the  BUSS , do not use the speed brakes.
Flying with speed
brakes extended affects the relationship between the speed and  AOA , and therefore the  BUSS  may provide erroneous
data.
For approach,
the flight crew should perform an early stabilized approach.  The flight crew should change the aircraft configuration with level
wings.
To retract or to extend flaps,
apply the following technique:
Before retracting
the next flaps configuration, fly the upper part of the green band
Before extending
the next flaps configuration, fly the lower part of the green band.
This technique limits the excursion
in the amber zones when changing the flaps configuration.
"Unreliable Speed Indication" QRH Procedure
Introduction
The "UNRELIABLE SPEED INDICATION"
procedure has two objectives:
To fly the aircraft
To identify
and isolate the affected  ADR (s).
It includes the following
steps:
Memory items
(if necessary)
Flight path
stabilization
Troubleshooting
and isolation
In the case
troubleshooting confirms that the  ADR s are not reliable:
flight using Digital Backup Speed and backup altitude indications.
When to Apply this Procedure?
The flight crew should consider applying
the “UNRELIABLE SPEED INDICATION” procedure when " UNREL SPD PROC... APPLY "
is displayed on  ECAM . In very remote cases, the flight
crew may have to apply Pitch/Thrust tables which are located in "UNRELIABLE
SPEED INDICATION" procedure.
The flight crew can suspect
an erroneous speed/altitude indication, in the following cases:
A speed discrepancy
(between  ADR  1, 2, 3 and standby indications)
Fluctuating
or unexpected changes of the indicated airspeed or altitude
Abnormal correlation between
the basic flight parameters (pitch, thrust, airspeed, altitude, and
vertical speed indications). For example:
The altitude
does not increase, whereas there is an important nose-up pitch and
high thrust
The  IAS  increases, whereas there is an important nose-up pitch
The  IAS  decreases, whereas there is an important nose-down pitch
The  IAS  decreases, whereas there is a nose-down pitch and the aircraft is
descending.
An abnormal
behavior of the  AP / FD  and/or the  A/THR
The STALL warning triggers or
the OVERSPEED warning triggers, and this is in contradiction with
the indicated airspeeds. In this case:
Rely on the
STALL warning. Erroneous airspeed data does not affect the STALL warning,
because the STALL warning is based on  AOA  data.
Depending on
the situation, the OVERSPEED warning may be false or justified. When
the OVERSPEED  VFE  warning triggers, the appearance of aircraft
buffet is a symptom that the airspeed is indeed excessive.
The barometric
altitude is not consistent with the  RA  height (when the  RA  is displayed)
The aerodynamic
noise reduces whereas the indicated airspeed increases, or vice versa
In approach,
it is not possible to extend the landing gear using the normal landing
gear system.
Flight crew coordination is
important. The  PM  should confirm any discrepancy:
Between the
standby airspeed indication and the speed indication on  PM 's  PFD
Between  PM 's  PFD  and  PF 's  PFD .
How to Apply this Procedure?
Memory Items
The flight crew must ensure
a safe flight path. If the safe conduct of the flight is affected,
the flight crew applies the memory items.
The memory items enable to rapidly establish safe flight conditions
for a limited period of time in all phases of flight and in all aircraft
configurations (weight and slats/flaps).
The flight crew must apply the
memory items, if the flight crew have a doubt on their ability to
safely fly the aircraft in the short term with the current parameters:
The flight crew
has lost situation awareness, or
The current
pitch and thrust are not appropriate for the current flight conditions,
or
The aircraft
has an unexpected flight path for the current flight conditions.
When the  PF  has stabilized
the target pitch and thrust values, the flight crew applies the  QRH  procedure without delay. The flight crew must apply the  QRH  procedure without delay, because flying with the memory
pitch/thrust values for an extended period of time can lead to exceed
the aircraft speed limits.
The flight crew must respect
the STALL warning.
Flight Path Stabilization
According to the procedure,
the flight crew can:
Level off the
aircraft then keep the flight path stabilized, or
Keep the flight
path stabilized.
If the flight crew has applied
the memory items, then the flight crew must level off the aircraft
to stabilize the flight path.
The objective of these two conditions
is to have a stabilized flight path to start the troubleshooting.
In all cases, the initial actions
are to disconnect the automations. This prevents the  FG  to use erroneous data for the computation of the aircraft guidance.
Initial disconnection of the automation can prevent:
Erroneous orders,
if  AP / FD  are engaged
Erroneous thrust
change, if  A/THR  is engaged.
Example of Failure Cases and
their Consequences  .
If the  A/THR  automatically
disconnects, the Thrust Lock function activates. The thrust is locked
at its level at the moment of the disconnection until the flight crew
moves the levers. The thrust may be locked at idle, due to normal  A/THR  behavior, or due to the use of erroneous data.
The  GPS  altitude
can be used to confirm that the aircraft is maintaining level flight.
A difference may exist
between the barometric altitude and the  GPS  altitude.
Troubleshooting and Isolation
In order to identify and isolate
the faulty speed source, the flight crew must crosscheck speed and
altitude indications on  CAPT
PFD ,  F/O
PFD  and  STBY  instruments.
To help the identification of
the affected speed source, the flight crew can use:
The Pitch/Thrust
tables of the  QRH  procedure, or
The  DBUS .
The Pitch/Thrust tables provide
the resulting speed for a given aircraft weight and flight level.
In the case all  ADR  speeds are detected erroneous, the
backup speed may still be valid although declared  UNCERTAIN  and should be considered as uncertain
(backup speed is declared  UNCERTAIN  when it is not consistent with
other reliable  ADR  speed sources).
Backup speed is declared  FAULT  when its computation is not possible
due to erroneous or missing inputs.
Do not instinctively
reject an outlier  ADR .
When one indication differs from the others, the flight crew may
be tempted to reject the outlier information. However, the flight
crew should be aware that two or even all three  ADR s can
provide identical but erroneous data.  When the flight crew has identified the affected  ADR (s),
the flight crew must turn off the affected  ADR (s). As a
consequence this triggers the corresponding  ECAM  alerts.
The flight crew must apply the associated procedures to address all
the consequences on the various aircraft systems.
If the flight
crew identifies at least one reliable speed source ( ADR  or backup speed) : the flight crew must use it
If the flight
crew cannot identify any reliable speed source or if all speed indications
remain unreliable, the flight crew must turn two  ADR s off
to prevent the flight control laws from using two consistent but unreliable  ADR  data. The flight crew must keep one  ADR  on.
For flight continuation, the flight crew uses the Pitch/Thrust tables
of the  QRH .
Specific Case of Radome Collapse
A radome collapse may induce air parameters
deviations and temporary air speed fluctuations that the flight crew
can detect. These effects may happen when the aircraft attitude varies,
or when the aircraft configuration is changed due to a modification
of the airflow around the probes.  As a result, the flight crew
should only assess the reliability of the air data sources when the
aircraft trajectory and configurations are stable.
Flying Technique
Pitch/Thrust Tables
When flying the aircraft with
unreliable speed and/or altitude indications, it is recommended to
change only one flight parameter at a time (i.e. speed, altitude or
configuration).
If the  FPV  is reliable (i.e. barometric altitude
is reliable), or with the  GPS  altitude information:
Maintain level
flight ( FPV  on the horizon or constant  GPS  altitude)
Adjust thrust
Observe the resulting pitch
attitude, and compare it with the recommended pitch target in the
table:
If the pitch
necessary to maintain level flight is above the pitch target of the
table, the aircraft is slow. Then increase the thrust.
If the pitch
necessary to maintain level flight is below the pitch target of the
table, the aircraft is fast. Then decrease the thrust.
When the pitch required to maintain level off gets close to the table
pitch target, re-adjust thrust to keep this target pitch.  When the conditions are stabilized, the resulting thrust should be
close to the value provided in the table.  This technique enables a fast stabilization of the speed while maintaining
level flight.
To retract (extend) flaps, apply the following technique:
While maintaining
level flight ( FPV  on the horizon or constant  GPS  altitude):
Increase (decrease)
thrust to accelerate (decelerate)
Select flaps
lever one step up (down)
When the pitch
reaches the table pitch target, re-adjust thrust to match the thrust
setting provided in the table.
If the  FPV  is not reliable and the  GPS  altitude information is not available (no means to ensure level
flight):
Adjust pitch and thrust according to  QRH  tables, and wait
for speed stabilization.  Expect a significant time to stabilize the flight path and important
altitude variations during the stabilization.
Digital BackUp SPeed
For the description of the  DBUS ,  .
The  DBUS  can be activated
and deactivated at flight crew discretion:
On  CAPT  side only, or
On  F/O  side only, or
On both sides
at the same time.
When  DBUS  is active:
The onside  AP / FD  and  A/THR  must be disconnected
The STALL warning
remains operative.
For approach, the flight crew
should perform an early stabilized approach.  The flight crew should change the aircraft configuration with wings
level using back-up characteristic speeds displayed on  PFD  ( VMAX  corresponds to  VFE / VMO  and  VMIN  corresponds to  VSW ).
Dual Radio Altimeter Failure
The Radio Altimeters ( RA )
provide inputs to a number of systems, including the  GPWS  and  FWC  for auto callouts. They also supply information
to the  AP  and  A/THR  modes, plus inputs to the
flight control laws switching at various phases. Although the  ECAM  procedure for
NAV  RA 1 AND 2 FAULT
is straightforward, the effects of the failure on the
aircraft operation require consideration.
Instead of using  RA  information, the flight control system uses inputs from the  LGCIU  to determine mode switching. Therefore, mode switching
are as follows:
On approach,
DIRECT LAW becomes active when the  L/G  is selected down
and provided  AP  is disconnected. At this point,  USE MAN PITCH TRIM  is displayed
on the  PFD .
After landing,
ground law becomes active when the  MLG  is compressed and
the pitch attitude becomes less than  2.5 .
It is
not possible to capture the  ILS /  FLS  /  SLS  /  GLS
using the  APPR , and the approach
must be flown to  CAT  1 limits only. However, it is possible
to capture the localizer using the  LOC .
The final phases of the approach should
be flown using raw data in order to avoid possible excessive roll
rates if  LOC  is still engaged. Since the autopilot are no longer updated with
the radio altimeter signal, the  AP / FD  behavior
may not reliable when approaching the ground.
There will be no auto callouts on approach,
and no "RETARD" call in the flare.  The  GPWS / EGPWS  will be inoperative, therefore, terrain
awareness becomes very important. Similarly, the "SPEED, SPEED,
SPEED" low energy warning is also inoperative, requiring increased
awareness.
Acceleration Altitude
At the acceleration altitude,
the  FD  pitch mode changes from  SRS  to  CLB  or  OP CLB  mode. The speed target jumps:
Either to the
managed target speed e.g. speed constraint, speed limit or  ECON  climb speed
Or to the preselected
climb speed (entered by the pilot on the MCDU PERF CLB page before
takeoff).
If green
dot speed is higher than the managed target speed (e.g. speed constraint  220 ) displayed by the magenta triangle on the  PFD  speed scale,
the  AP / FD  will guide the aircraft to green dot
(as per the general managed speed guidance rule). If required by  ATC , the crew will select the adequate target speed (below
green dot) on the  FCU .
During takeoff phase,  F  and  S  speeds are the minimum speeds for retracting the
surfaces:
At  F  speed, the aircraft accelerating (positive speed trend): retract
to 1.
At  S  speed, the aircraft accelerating (positive speed trend): retract
to 0.
If the  ENG  MODE selector had been selected to  IGN  START
for take-off, the  PM  should confirm with the  PF  when it may be deselected.
General
Aircraft
performance is certified on the basis of a clean wing. Ice accretion
affects wing performance. When the wing is clean, the airflow smoothly
follows the shape of the wing.  When the wing is covered with ice,
the airflow separates from the wing when the Angle-Of-Attack ( AOA ) increases. Therefore, the maximum lift-coefficient is
reduced.  As a result, the aircraft may stall at a lower  AOA , and the drag may increase.  The flight
crew must keep in mind that the wing temperature of the aircraft may
be significantly lower than  0 , after
a flight at high altitude and low temperature, even if the Outside
Air Temperature ( OAT ) is higher than  0 . In such cases, humidity or rain will cause
ice accretion on the upper wing, and light frost under the wing (only  3  of frost on the under side of the wing tank area is acceptable).  Ice accretion on the lower part of the
nose fuselage may also affect the Static, Pitot and  AOA  probes. If ice ridges build up on the skin of the aircraft, it may
impact the aerodynamic flow in front of the Static, Pitot and  AOA  probes. As a result, the flight crew may observe unreliable
air data during the takeoff and climb phases.
Cockpit Preparation
The following systems may be
affected in very cold weather:
The  EFIS / ECAM  (when the cockpit temperature is very low)
The  IRS  alignment (may take longer than usual, up to  15 ).
The probe
and window heating may be used on ground.
General
Windshear Phenomenon
Windshear is a sudden change in either wind speed or direction, or
both, over a relatively short distance. Windshear occurs either horizontally
or vertically at all altitudes.
Windshear can result from a
microburst. Microbursts occur close to the ground and are a possible
hazard to the safe flight of the aircraft for the following two reasons:
The downburst
of a microburst can result in strong downward winds ( 40  can be reached)
The outburst
of a microburst can result in both a large horizontal windshear and
a wind component shift from headwind to tailwind (horizontal winds
can reach up to  40 ).
An aircraft
that approaches a microburst will first encounter a strong headwind.
This can result in an increase in the indicated airspeed. This may
cause the aircraft to fly above the intended flight path and/or accelerate.
With a fixed speed on approach, the flight crew's reaction may be
to reduce power. This will cause the aircraft to fly with reduced
energy through the downburst. The wind will then become a tailwind.
The indicated airspeed and lift will drop and the downburst may be
sufficiently strong to force the aircraft to lose a significant amount
of altitude. The degraded performance, combined with a tailwind encounter,
may cause the aircraft to stall.
Windshear Phenomenon
Awareness and Avoidance
Awareness of the weather conditions
that cause windshear will reduce the risk of an encounter. Studying
meteorological reports and listening to tower reports will help the
flight crew to assess the weather conditions that are to be expected
during takeoff or landing.  If a windshear encounter is
likely, the takeoff or landing should be delayed until the conditions
improve, e.g. until a thunderstorm has moved away from the airport.
Recognition
Timely recognition of a windshear
condition is vital for the successful implementation of the windshear
recovery/escape procedure.
The flight crew should pay attention
to the following deviations that may indicate a possible windshear
condition:
Indicated airspeed
variations in excess of  15
Ground speed
variations
Wind indication
variations on the  ND  or
HUD  : directions and velocity
Vertical speed
excursions of  500
Pitch attitude
excursions of  5
Glide slope
deviation of 1 dot
Heading variations
of  10
Unusual  A/THR  activity.
Strategy FOR COPING with Windshear
The windshear and microburst
are hazardous phenomena for an aircraft at takeoff or landing. The
strategy to cope with windshear is:
Increasing flight crew awareness  through
the  PWS
Informing the flight crew  of unexpected air
mass variations through  FPV  and approach speed variations
Warning the flight crew  of significant loss
of energy through "SPEED, SPEED, SPEED" and "WINDSHEAR"
aural warnings (if available)
Providing effective tools  to escape the shear
through ALPHA FLOOR protection,  SRS  pitch order, high  AOA  protection and Ground Speed mini protection.
Increasing flight crew awareness (if available)
When the airshaft of a microburst reaches
the ground, it mushrooms outward carrying with it a large number of
falling rain droplets. The radar can measure speed variations of the
droplets, and as a result, assess wind variations. This predictive
capability to assess wind variations is performed by the  PWS . The  PWS  automatically operates below a given altitude
( ), if the radar is ON
or OFF, provided that the  PWS  is in the AUTO position.
Informing flight crew
The  FPV  associated with the
approach speed variations ( GS  mini protection) is an effective
means for informing the flight crew of unexpected air mass variations:  Approach speed variations and lateral  FPV  displacement
reflect horizontal wind gradient. Vertical  FPV  displacement
reflects the vertical air mass movement.
Warning the flight crew
The "SPEED, SPEED, SPEED"
low energy warning (if available) is based on the aircraft speed,
acceleration and flight path angle. This warning attracts the  PF  eyes to the speed scale, and request rapid thrust adjustment.
In windshear conditions, it is the first warning to appear, before
the activation of the alpha floor. The following table provides some
typical values of the speed at which the warning could occur in two
different circumstances.
Deceleration Rate
Flight Path Angle
Warning
-1 /second
-3
VLS
-7
-1 /second
-4
VLS
-1
In addition, the aircraft has a reactive windshear warning system.
 This system triggers if the aircraft encounters windshear. In such
a case, there is a "WINDSHEAR WINDSHEAR WINDSHEAR" aural
warning.
Providing effective tools
There are three effective tools
to assist the flight crew to escape:
The alpha floor
protection
The  SRS
AP / FD  pitch law
The high  AOA  protection.
When the
alpha floor protection is triggered, the  A/THR  triggers  TOGA  on all engines. The  FMA  displays  A.FLOOR , that changes to  TOGA LK , when the aircraft  AOA  has decreased.  TOGA / LK  can only be deselected by turning  the  A/THR  off.  The  SRS  pitch mode
ensures the best aircraft climb performance. Therefore, the procedure
requests following the  SRS  pitch bar and possibly full
aft stick, in order to follow the  SRS  orders and  minimize
the loss of height.  The high angle-of-attack protection
enables the  PF  to safely pull full aft stick, if needed,
in order to follow the  SRS  pitch order, or to rapidly counteract
a down movement. This provides maximum lift and minimum drag, by automatically
retracting the speed brakes, if they are extended.
General
Windshear Phenomenon
Windshear is a sudden change
in either wind speed or direction, or both, over a relatively short
distance. Windshear occurs either horizontally or vertically at all
altitudes.
Windshear can result from a
microburst. Microbursts occur close to the ground and are a possible
hazard to the safe flight of the aircraft for the following two reasons:
The downburst
of a microburst can result in strong downward winds (up to  40 )
The outburst
of a microburst can result in both a large horizontal windshear and
a wind component shift from headwind to tailwind (horizontal winds
can reach up to  40 ).
An aircraft that approaches
a microburst will first encounter a strong headwind. This can result
in an increase in the indicated airspeed. This may cause the aircraft
to fly above the intended flight path and/or accelerate. With a fixed
speed on approach, the flight crew's reaction may be to reduce
power. This will cause the aircraft to fly with reduced energy through
the downburst. The wind will then become a tailwind. The indicated
airspeed and lift will drop and the downburst may be sufficiently
strong to force the aircraft to lose a significant amount of altitude.
The degraded performance, combined with a tailwind encounter, may
cause the aircraft to stall.
Windshear Phenomenon
Awareness and Avoidance
Awareness of the weather conditions
that cause windshear will reduce the risk of an encounter. Studying
meteorological reports and listening to tower reports will help the
flight crew to assess the weather conditions that are to be expected
during takeoff or landing.  If a windshear encounter is
likely, the takeoff or landing should be delayed until the conditions
improve, e.g. until a thunderstorm has moved away from the airport.
Recognition
Timely recognition of a windshear
condition is vital for the successful implementation of the windshear
recovery/escape procedure.
The flight crew should pay attention
to the following deviations that may indicate a possible windshear
condition:
Indicated airspeed
variations in excess of  15
Ground speed
variations on the  ND  or
HUD
Wind indication
variations on the  ND  or
HUD  : directions and velocity
Vertical speed
excursions of  500
Pitch attitude
excursions of  5
Glide slope
deviation of 1 dot
Heading variations
of  10
Unusual  A/THR  activity.
Strategy FOR COPING with Windshear
The windshear and microburst
are hazardous phenomena for an aircraft at takeoff or landing. The
strategy to cope with windshear is:
Increasing the flight crew awareness  through
the  PWS
Informing the flight crew  of unexpected air
mass variations through  FPV  and approach speed variations
Warning the flight crew  of significant loss
of energy through "SPEED, SPEED, SPEED" and "WINDSHEAR"
aural warnings (if available)
Providing effective tools  to escape the shear
through alpha floor protection,  SRS  pitch order, high  AOA  protection and  GS  mini protection.
Increasing flight crew awareness (if available)
When the airshaft of a microburst reaches
the ground, it expands outward carrying with it a large number of
falling rain droplets. The radar can measure speed variations of the
droplets, and as a result, assess wind variations. This predictive
capability to assess wind variations is performed by the  PWS . The  PWS  automatically operates below a given altitude
( ), if the radar is ON
or OFF, provided that the  PWS  is in the AUTO position.
Informing flight crew
The  FPV  associated with the
approach speed variations ( GS  mini protection) is an effective
means for informing the flight crew of unexpected air mass variations.  Approach speed variations and
lateral  FPV  displacement reflect horizontal wind gradient.
Vertical  FPV  displacement reflects the vertical air mass
movement.
Warning the flight crew
The "SPEED, SPEED, SPEED"
low energy warning (if available) is based on the aircraft speed,
acceleration and flight path angle. This warning attracts the  PF  eyes to the speed scale, and request rapid thrust adjustment.
In windshear conditions, it is the first warning to appear, before
the activation of the alpha floor. The following table provides some
typical values of the speed at which the warning could occur in two
different circumstances.
Deceleration Rate
Flight Path Angle
Warning
-1
-3
VLS
-7
-1
-4
VLS
-1
In addition, the aircraft has a reactive windshear warning system.
 This system triggers if the aircraft encounters windshear. In such
a case, there is a "WINDSHEAR WINDSHEAR WINDSHEAR" aural
warning.
Providing effective tools
There are three effective tools
to assist the flight crew to escape:
The alpha floor
protection
The  SRS
AP / FD  pitch law
The high  AOA  protection.
When the
alpha floor protection is triggered, the  A/THR  triggers  TOGA  on all engines. The  FMA  displays  A.FLOOR , that reverts to the
previous  A/THR  mode (or  A/THR  OFF if no  A/THR  mode was selected before alpha floor protection) when
out of the alpha floor protection.  The  SRS  pitch mode
ensures the best aircraft climb performance. Therefore, the procedure
requests following the  SRS  pitch bar and possibly full
aft stick, in order to follow the  SRS  orders and  minimize
the loss of height.  The high angle-of-attack protection
enables the  PF  to safely pull full aft stick, if needed,
in order to follow the  SRS  pitch order, or to rapidly counteract
a down movement. This provides maximum lift and minimum drag, by automatically
retracting the speed brakes, if they are extended.
Introduction
Severe turbulence is defined as turbulence that causes large, abrupt
changes in altitude and/or attitude. It usually causes large variations
in airspeed.  The flight crew must use weather reports
and charts to determine the location and altitude of possible  CB s, storms, and Clear Air Turbulence ( CAT ).
If turbulence is expected:
The flight crew
must set the  SEAT BELTS  to ON, in order to prepare passengers
and prevent injuries
All loose equipment
must be secured in the cockpit and in the cabin.
If severe turbulence occurs
during a flight, the flight crew must make a logbook entry in order
to initiate maintenance action.
General
General
A Radius-to-Fix ( RF ) leg is
an arc of circle with a fixed radius coded in the  FMS  Navigation
Data Base. The rounded value of the radius is displayed on the  MCDU  FLIGHT PLAN page and is called ARC value.
Use of AP/FD
Use of AP/FD
Depending on the  RNP  operations, use of the  FD s or the  AP / FD  may be mandatory.
Speed Management along RF Legs
Speed Management Along RF Legs
When flying an  RF  leg, the  FMS  adapts the bank
angle to fly the arc. The bank angle is a function of the ground speed.  If the ground speed is excessive, the requested bank angle to follow
the trajectory can be higher than the maximum bank angle permitted
by the Flight Guidance ( FG ) system ( 30  in normal conditions).
In this case the aircraft will overshoot the trajectory.
Therefore, to fly  RF  legs, the flight crew should be aware of the following operational
recommendations:
Respect speed
constraints on  RF  legs. Use managed speed.
Pay attention
to strong winds, particularly to high tailwinds that increase the
ground speed
Monitor the
bank angle, particularly when near  30  (i.e. the maximum
bank angle with the  AP / FD  engaged).
Variation of the bank angle due to the wind in RF legs
Go Around during RF Leg
GO-AROUND during RF LEG
When the flight crew selects  TOGA  thrust, particularly in a turn, they must check that the
NAV mode immediately engages in order to stay on the desired track.  If the NAV mode does not automatically engage, the flight crew must
engage it manually.
Use of DIR TO Function
Use of the DIR TO function
The use of the  DIR TO  function
below  MSA  is not recommended. This is because the flight
plan leg that results is not part of the approach procedure.  The flight crew must use the RADIAL IN
function when performing a  DIR TO  towards a waypoint followed
by a  RF  leg. This enables the alignment of the aircraft
with the subsequent  RNP
F-PLN  track.  The flight crew must not descend
below the  MSA  until the aircraft is established on the  F-PLN  leg.
Engine Out Considerations
Engine-out Considerations
The bank angle limit of the  FG  with one engine inoperative is  30  when  NAV ,  APP NAV , or  FINAL APP  mode is engaged.  With one engine inoperative, the bank
angle limit of the  FG  may be lower than  30  when the  IAS  is lower than maneuvering speeds (VMAN).
The VMAN is the  F  speed,  S  speed, or Green Dot speed, depending on the flap configuration.
The bank angle limit of the  FG  depends on the  IAS  as illustrated on the following graph:
During go-around or departure with one engine inoperative, the  IAS  may be lower than the current maneuvering speed, which
will limit the bank angle.  The flight crew must be aware that during
acceleration, flaps retraction at the usual speeds ( F  speed, then  S  speed) may affect
the turn radius and a compatibility with turn requirements for a procedure
being flown.
General
This section describes the available
cost-reduction guidelines for the different flight phases. Operators
can use these procedures in order to define their own cost-reduction
policy.
Each Operator is responsible
for the decision of what costs/parameters to reduce, for example (non-exhaustive
list):
Maintenance
costs
Fuel consumption
Operating costs
Passenger comfort.
For example,
the purpose of both  CI  and Flexible Takeoff is to reduce
general costs, not the fuel consumption.  The information in this chapter is not
applicable to all Operators to the same extent, and depends on their
specific operations (e.g. geographical location, airport conditions,
local regulations, etc.).
The flight
crew should decide which procedures to apply, in accordance with the
Operator's guidelines and the flight conditions of the day, including
the aircraft status.
Dispatch
Fuel Quantity
The flight crew must determine and monitor
the necessary fuel quantity at departure, from accurate and consistent
data (i.e. weather, performance factor, optimum flight level, average
wind speed, etc.).  The weight
of any extra fuel will increase fuel consumption.
Takeoff Configuration
Fuel reduction is not a factor for the
selection of a takeoff configuration.  The takeoff performance and best takeoff
configuration depend on several operational and environmental factors.
The flight crew should select the takeoff configuration that:
Optimizes takeoff
performance (takeoff weight, etc.)
If possible,
increases flexible temperature
Reduces takeoff
speed (higher configuration for a dedicated flexible temperature).
A higher
slats and flaps configuration (i.e. slats and flaps more extended)
slightly increases fuel consumption. But, with a higher flexible temperature,
such a higher configuration results in a cost reduction.
Takeoff Thrust
When performance permits, use the highest
flexible temperature for takeoff.  Takeoff with flexible thrust increases
fuel consumption compared with takeoff with  TOGA  thrust,
due to the longer takeoff phase. But the use of flexible thrust reduces
engine wear and reduces general costs.
External Walkaround
During the external inspection, the flight
crew should pay attention to defects that may increase aerodynamic
drag, for example:
Mismatch of
aircraft fuselage panels
Flight control
surfaces that are not correctly aligned
Worn seals on
the airframe
Peeling paint
Dirt on the
aircraft.
Cockpit Preparation
FMGS INITIALIZATION
INIT PAGE
The flight crew should respectively
check that:
The Cost Index
( CI ) is consistent with the Computerized Flight Plan (CFP).
The  CI  is the ratio of time costs versus fuel costs. The
purpose of the  CI  is not to reduce fuel consumption
The tropopause
value is correct, in order to ensure the accuracy of  FMS  predictions.
TAKEOFF PERF PAGE
If conditions and regulations permit,
the flight crew should reduce the altitude for both the thrust reduction
altitude ( THR
RED
ALT ) and the acceleration
altitude ( ACCEL
ALT ).  Depending on the regulations,
the lowest authorized altitude may be  400 .
Takeoff Runway Optimization
The takeoff performance is the first
factor to consider in the selection of the takeoff runway.  When possible, the flight crew should
request takeoff on the runway that minimizes the taxi time and optimizes
the departure trajectory, in order to minimize the flight time.
Before Pushback or Start
Pushback/Start Clearance
When conditions and  ATC  permit,
the flight crew should delay the engine start for as long as possible.
This is to reduce time spent with the engines running before takeoff.
Before takeoff, the flight crew must
ensure engine warm-up, in order to prevent engine wear, and to maintain
engine performance.
After Start
APU
If the  APU  is not necessary during or after taxi, the flight crew
should set the  APU  bleed to off and shut down the  APU . Fuel consumption is reduced when the  APU  is
not running, even if bleed air is supplied by the engines.
If the  APU  is necessary during or after taxi (e.g. when takeoff performance
requires  APU  bleed), the flight crew may set the  APU  bleed to ON, in order to reduce fuel consumption. This opens the
crossbleed valve and automatically closes the engine bleed. As the
bleed air is not supplied by the engines, the fuel consumption is
reduced.  However, the use of  APU  bleed can lead to exhaust gases ingestion into the air
conditioning system.
AIR CONDITIONING
Consider  LO  ( ECON ) mode.
Taxi
Thrust Management
Idle thrust is sufficient to move a light
aircraft during taxi. If necessary, the flight crew should apply a
small thrust increase.
Excessive
thrust burns more fuel, requires more brake application, and results
in an increase in brake wear.
ONE ENGINE TAXI
FCOM/PRO-SOP - One Engine Taxi At Departure
Before Takeoff
Air Conditioning
Before takeoff, the flight crew can set
both packs to OFF.  .
Descent Preparation
Landing Runway Optimization
When landing performance permits, the
flight crew should ask the  ATC  to land on the runway that
minimizes approach and/or taxi time.
Landing Preparation
When landing performance permits, the
best combination to reduce fuel costs and brakes oxidation is:  CONF  3 +  REV  IDLE + Autobrake  LO .
If the flight crew
needs to reduce the landing distance, they should consider to use
the deceleration devices in the following order:
FLAPS FULL
REV
MAX
Autobrake  MED .
The flight crew should avoid the use
of Autobrake  MED  in combination with  CONF  3
and  REV  IDLE. This is because this configuration highly
increases brake temperature and, as a result, brakes oxidation, which
may be severe.  For more information about brakes oxidation,  .  When the flight crew rides the brakes
(and overrides the Autobrake) at landing, brakes oxidation may occur.
After Landing
APU
After landing, the flight crew should
delay, for as long as possible, the start of the  APU .  If only the ground pneumatic unit is
available at the gate, the flight crew may keep the  APU  bleed off during transit.
AIR CONDITIONING
If one pack is sufficient to supply air
when on ground, the flight crew can set one PACK to OFF.  In such a case, the flight crew should switch between the packs on
each flight, in order to prevent excessive wear of one pack.
ONE ENGINE TAXI
FCOM/PRO-SOP - One Engine Taxi At Arrival
Interception of the Final Approach Course
INTERCEPTION OF FINAL APPROACH COURSE
When cleared for the  ILS  and when on the intercept trajectory for the  LOC , the
flight crew should press the  APPR . This arms the approach
modes, and  LOC  and  GS  are displayed in blue
on the  FMA . At this stage, the second  AP , if
available, should be selected.  In the example below, if the  ATC  clears the aircraft for the procedure at HAZEL, the flight
crew must delay the push on the  APPR , as the aircraft is
not on the intercept trajectory for the  LOC :
VMMC ILS RWY34 via HAZEL
If the  ATC  clears for a  LOC  capture only, the
flight crew will press the  LOC  on the  FCU .  If the  ATC  clears
for approach at a significant distance, e.g.  30 , the flight
crew should be aware that the  G/S  may be perturbed and  CAT  1 will be displayed on  FMA  till a valid Radio
Altimeter signal is received.
Glide Slope Interception from Above
GLIDE SLOPE INTERCEPTION FROM ABOVE
The following procedure must only be
applied when established on the localizer.  There are a number of
factors which might lead to a glide slope interception from above.
In such a case, the flight crew must react without delay to meet the
stabilization criteria.  In order to get the best rate
of descent when cleared by  ATC  and below the limiting speeds,
the flight crew should lower the landing gear and select flaps as
required (at least  CONF  2 should be selected to ensure
that the aircraft speed will not increase). Speedbrakes may also be
used, noting the considerations detailed in the subsection "Deceleration
and configuration change" earlier in this chapter.
When cleared to intercept the glide slope, the flight crew
should:
Press the  APPR  on  FCU  and confirm  G/S  is armed and  LOC  engaged, monitor the vertical interception
Select the  FCU  altitude above aircraft altitude to avoid unwanted  ALT*  engagement
Select  V/S
1500  initially.  V/S  in excess
of  2000  will result in the speed increasing
towards  VFE .
The use
of V/S mode ensures that the  A/THR  is in SPEED mode.  The flight crew should carefully monitor
the rate of descent to avoid exceeding  VFE  . When approaching
the  G/S
path,  G/S*  will engage. The flight crew should monitor the  G/S
capture
with raw data (pitch and  G/S  deviation). The go-around
altitude should be set on the  FCU  at  G/S* .
AP Disconnection
AP  DISCONNECTION
During the final approach with the  AP  engaged, the aircraft will be stabilized. Therefore, when
disconnecting the  AP  for a manual landing, the pilot should
avoid the temptation to make large inputs on the sidestick.
The pilot should disconnect
the autopilot early enough to resume manual control of the aircraft
and to evaluate the drift before flare. During crosswind conditions,
the pilot should avoid any tendency to drift downwind.
Some common errors include:
Descending below
the final path, and/or
reducing the
drift too early.
Interception of the Final Approach Course
Interception of the Final Approach Course
The  FLS  virtual beam is displayed
in magenta and is  80  long. It could be intercepted
at any point along the magenta line.  When cleared for the interception of
the final approach course, and when on the intercept trajectory for
the final approach course, the flight crew presses  APPR  on
the  FCU . Check  F-G/S  and  F-LOC  become
armed on the  FMA .
Obstacle clearance
is not guaranteed if FLS guidance is used outside the published approach.
Example of  APPR  Selection that Leads the Aircraft
to Fly Outside the Published Approach
Reaching Minima
Reaching Minima
The applicable minima are those associated
with the approach chart.
When the aircraft reaches the
minima, the  PM  either monitors or announces “MINIMUM”.
The current altitude value becomes amber.
If the appropriate visual conditions are met at minima:
The flight crew can visually continue the approach.
Below minima:
When the  FLS  is used for approach,
the FDs provide lateral and vertical managed guidance down to the
anchor point. The flight crew can keep the AP/FD engaged below minima.
Keeping the AP/FD below minima
when visual references are acquired is highly valuable in the following
conditions:
High minima
above ground level
Marginal weather
conditions.
However, the guidance may not
be relevant especially in the following cases:
MAP  not at the  RWY  threshold and final segment not aligned
with the runway track (final segment does not cross the  RWY  threshold)
Strong offset
between final segment and runway track.
In such cases the AP/FD should be switched off and  TRK
FPA  (bird) flying reference may be used.
At the Minimum Use Height of the  AP :
The flight crew must disconnect the  AP  no later than the Minimum Use Height of  AP  (  for the Minimum Use Height
of  AP ).
Switching OFF FDs and use of  TRK
FPA  (bird) is at pilot discretion.
Below minima,
the visual references must be the primary references until landing.
From minima
the  FD  provides an additional guidance. The FDs must be
switched off if the guidance is not relevant or not followed.
If the appropriate visual conditions are not met at minima:
The flight crew must initiate a missed
approach.
LOC ONLY, ILS G/S OUT, LOC B/C Approach
LOC ONLY, ILS G/S OUT, LOC B/C Approach
LOC  ONLY,  LOC
B/C  and  LOC
G/S  OUT approaches may be
flown using the  LOC  radio beam signal for lateral navigation
and  FMS  computed  F-G/S  for vertical guidance.
Approach Preparation
LOC ONLY approach
The flight crew selects the  LOC  approach as required in the  FMS  during the approach preparation.
LOC B/C approach
Back course localizer ( LOC
B/C ) approach must be flown using  TRK
FPA  mode.
LOC GS OUT approach
The flight crew selects the  ILS  approach in the  FMS  during the approach preparation.
As the  G/S  deviations and guidance modes are not available,
the vertical  FLS  deviation (double diamond) and mode ( F-G/S ) may be made available by deselecting the  G/S . To deselect the  G/S , the flight crew should press the
" DESELECT* " prompt on the  MCDU
RAD
NAV  page.
DESCENT (CROSSING FL100)
When the flight crew presses
the  ILS/LS  they should check:
FLS  approach capability (addresses only the vertical mode)
The  LOC  (or  LOC
B/C  ) deviation is displayed as single
diamond (radio data)
The  F-G/S  deviation is displayed as a double diamond ( FM  computed
data)
The  LOC
ident , frequency and  DME  distance.
INTERMEDIATE APPROACH
The flight crew presses the  APPR  on the  FCU  when cleared for approach, and on the intercept
trajectory for the final approach course. The flight crew monitors
that the  LOC  (or  LOC
B/C ) and  F-G/S  mode arm.
Final Approach
If the approach capability reverts to  F-APP + RAW:
The lateral navigation ( LOC  or  LOC
B/C  deviations) remains reliable  The vertical navigation ( F-G/S  deviations) must be crosschecked with navaid raw data (distance/altitude).
If the approach capability reverts to RAW ONLY:
The  F-G/S vertical
deviation remains but must be disregarded .
The flight crew will select the bird
and select a Flight Path Angle. This will disengage the  F-G/S  mode.
Initial
Initial Approach
Flying Reference
The "bird" is to be
used as the flying reference.
Approach Phase Activation
The approach technique is the
early stabilized approach.
Intermediate
Intermediate Approach
The  TRK  index will
be set to the  ILS  course and, once established on the  LOC , the tail of the bird should be coincident with the  TRK  index. This method allows accurate  LOC  tracking
taking into account the drift.  Should the  LOC  deviate,
the pilot will fly the bird in the direction of the  LOC  index, and when re-established on the  LOC , set the tail
of the bird on the  TRK  index again. If there is further  LOC  deviation, check unwanted residual bank angle. Also a slight  IRS  drift should be suspected as the bird is computed out of  IRS  data.  The  ILS  course pointer
and the  TRK  diamond are also displayed on  PFD  compass.
Final
Final Approach
When ½ dot below the  G/S , the pilot should initiate the interception of the  G/S  by smoothly flying the  FPV  down to the glide path angle.
Should the  G/S  deviate, the pilot will make small corrections
in the direction of the deviation and when re-established on the  G/S , reset the bird to the  G/S  angle.
General
General
This chapter explains some specificities
to fly an approach with the  FLS  function. However, general
recommendations mentioned in aircraft configuration management and
aircraft guidance management of this  FCTM  APPROACH section
apply.  The approaches based on radio
navaids and the  RNAV  ( GNSS ) with  LNAV  or  LNAV / VNAV  minima, can be flown with the  FMS  Landing System (FLS) function.  For  LOC  G/S OUT,  LOC  ONLY,  LOC  B/C approaches, the lateral guidance remains
based on the radio beam, and the FLS function can guide the aircraft
on the vertical path,
The flight crew can use the  FLS  function, if:
The  FLS  function is available
The required  FLS  capability for the approach is available.
FLS Principle
FLS Principle
General
The  FLS  function allows to fly a  NPA  " ILS  alike".  The  FMS  uses information from the Navigation Database to compute
a virtual  FLS  beam. The  FMS  sends this  FLS  beam and the  FM  position to the Multi Mode Receiver
( MMR ).
The virtual  FLS  beam
is characterized by:
An anchor point
(the anchor point  ident  is  RWY  if it is located
on the runway threshold,  EP  in the others cases)
A slope
An approach
course (materialized by a double dagger on the  PFD  heading
scale).
The final
approach leg from the Navigation Database defines the course and slope
of the  FLS  beam. On the  ND , the  FLS  lateral beam is materialized by a magenta dotted line.
The  MMR  computes and displays
the lateral and vertical angular deviations from this  FLS  virtual beam like for an  ILS  approach. These deviations
are presented as double diamonds both on  PFD  and  ND . The  FLS  virtual beam may be flown with  F-LOC  and/or  F-G/S
AP / FD  modes.
Approach Capability
The approach capability is displayed
on  FMA  when the  LS  is pressed. This approach capability
helps the flight crew to determine their strategy:
F-APP :  FLS  deviations and  F-G/S ,  F-LOC  guidance are reliable
F-APP + RAW : The flight crew can refer to  FLS  deviations
but must cross-check with navaid raw data i.e.  VOR ,  NDB  and/or  DME
RAW ONLY : The
flight crew must not use the  FLS  and refer exclusively
to  NAVAID  raw data i.e.  VOR ,  NDB  and/or  DME  to perform the approach (Discussed in NPA WITHOUT FLS section)
Any approach
capability degradation on the  FMA  is accompanied by a triple
click (as for  ILS ).
The term  RAW  in F-APP+ RAW and RAW ONLY refers to navaid raw data. It
does not refer to an approach in  FLS  raw data ( AP / FD  OFF).
In F-APP +RAW,
the distance to be considered for the altitude/distance check is the
radio-computed distance on the  ND  and not the  FMS  computed distance (to anchor point) on the  PFD .
The flight crew
must not fly  RNAV  approaches when  FLS  capability
is F-APP+RAW, or RAW ONLY since no navaid raw data is available for
this approach.
F-G/S Deviations Reference
Unlike
the  ILS
G/S , the  F-G/S  deviations
are baro referenced i.e. at sealevel, a  1  altimeter setting
error moves the  F-G/S  vertical profile about  30  up or down. The crew should therefore pay particular attention to
the altimeter setting, and any altimeter setting change during the
approach must be reflected both on the  FCU  and on the  MCDU
PERF APPR page.
Whatever the altimeter reference
used prior or during the approach, i.e.  STD ,  QNH , or  QFE  (if installed), the virtual  FLS
G/S  beam is always based on  QNH . The  QNH  value used for the  FLS  beam is either:
The  QNH  value entered on  PERF
APPR  page (as long as  STD  is used for baro ref),
The  QNH  value entered on  FCU  (when  QNH  is used for
baro ref),
Computed from
the  QFE  (if installed) set on  FCU  and the runway
elevation from the  FM  data base (when  QFE  is
used for baro ref)
When temperature is below  ISA , the F-G/S deviations are corrected in temperature ( ).
Earth Curvation
For  NPA  flown with the  FLS  function, the final path
crossing altitudes are geometric altitudes referring to the anchor
point. When intercepting the final approach path, and due to the earth
curvation effect, a slight altitude deviation between the altimeter
and the published approach chart may be noticed. Typically, at  FAF , the  F-G/S  virtual beam is about  50  higher.
Offset Approach
Depending
on the approach procedure construction, the anchor point may be different
from the runway threshold and may be located abeam this threshold.
The anchor point ident is then EPXXX (e.g. EP33L).
Down to minimum,
the distance and slope information on the  PFD  are representative
of distance and slope to the runway threshold.
When flying
the visual part of the approach i.e. below the minimum:
The distance
displayed on  PFD  is no longer representative of distance
to the threshold (indeed, the distance may increase as the aircraft
is converging towards the runway threshold)
As the aircraft
is leaving the  F-LOC  beam toward the runway threshold,
the  F-G/S  deviation becomes meaningless and must be disregarded.
Therefore, the  LS  should be set OFF at minimum.
FLS  Use
All published  NPA  coded in the  FM  database may be flown using the  FLS  function provided:
The offset between
final approach course and runway course does not exceed 50°
The approach
capability is at least  F-APP  or  F-APP +RAW.
If the  FLS  function is not available due to the approach construction,
a white  MCDU  message “NO FLS FOR THIS  APPR "is
displayed on the scratchpad when selecting the  NPA  .  If a system failure affects the  FLS  capability, the  ECAM  STATUS page displays the  FLS  capability even before  LS  is pressed.
Cold Weather Operations
Cold Weather Operations
The virtual  FLS  beam is corrected for temperature below  ISA  thanks to the Airport temperature entered in the  MCDU
PERF
APPR  page. The  F-G/S  deviations
and the managed vertical mode  F-G/S  can therefore be used
whatever the outside temperature.
The altitude corrections for
cold weather operation should still be applied:
During approach,
before being established on the  F-G/S  beam
When the  FLS  capability is F-APP+RAW or RAW ONLY, for the altitude/distance
check
On the value
of the minima entered in the  MCDU .
Interception of the Final Vertical Leg
Interception of the Final Vertical Leg
When the aircraft reaches the  FDP , the flight crew must check that the  F-G/S  is engaged.  As for  ILS , when
passing the  FDP , the flight crew must check the altitude
and location of the  FDP  thanks to an altitude/distance
check.
When the  FLS  capability is  F-APP  +RAW, the flight crew must monitor the final approach
using  the  FLS  deviations and cross-check with navaid raw
data i.e.  VOR ,  NDB  and/or  DME  (needles,
distance/altitude).
Interception of the Final Approach Course
Interception of the Final Approach Course
It is essential to have a correct  F-PLN  in order to ensure proper final approach guidance. Indeed
the  NAV  and APP NAV modes are always guiding the aircraft
along the  F-PLN  active leg and the managed vertical mode
ensures  VDEV  =0,  VDEV , being computed along
the remaining  F-PLN  to destination. Hence, the crew will
monitor the proper sequencing of the  F-PLN , more specifically
if  HDG  mode is selected, by checking that the TO  WPT , on upper right hand corner of  ND , is the most probable
one and meaningful.
The flight crew can use the DIR TO RADIAL IN function to sequence
the  F-PLN .
When cleared
for final approach course interception, the pilot should press the  APPR  p/b on  FCU . On the  FMA , APP NAV
mode becomes armed or engaged and FINAL mode becomes armed. The  VDEV  or "brick" scale becomes active and represents
the vertical deviation, which may include a level segment. The  VDEV /brick scale will only be displayed if  ILS  or  LS  pb is not pressed. If the  ILS  or  LS  pb is pressed by mistake, the V/DEV will flash in amber on the  PFD .  The final
approach course interception will be monitored through applicable
raw data.
Cold Weather Operations
Cold Weather Operations
For all Non Precision Approaches,
there is a minimum  OAT . Below this temperature, the error
on the barometric altitude is no longer acceptable, and altitude should
be corrected in temperature.  As it is not authorized to make these
altitude corrections to the final approach segment of the  FM  Flight Plan ( F-PLN ) through the  MCDU , it is
not possible to use FINAL APP when  OAT  is below this minimum  OAT . The flight crew must then use selected vertical guidance.
This minimum  OAT  is indicated on the approach chart or
must be defined by the operator based on the terrain profile (plus
adequate margin).
LOC ONLY, ILS G/S OUT
LOC ONLY, ILS G/S OUT
LOC  ONLY approaches may be
flown using the  LOC  signal for lateral navigation and  FPA  for vertical guidance.
DESCENT (CROSSING FL100)
The flight crew will select  LS  p/b on the  EFIS  control panel.
INITIAL/INTERMEDIATE APPROACH
The flight crew will press  LOC  on the  FCU  when cleared for approach and on
the intercept trajectory for the final approach course. The flight
crew will monitor the  LOC  armed mode and then  LOC  capture.
FINAL APPROACH
Approaching the point where
the final descent starts, the flight crew will initiate the descent
as for approach using vertical selected guidance.
Circling Approach
The circling approach is the visual phase
of an instrument approach to bring an aircraft into position for landing
on a runway which is not suitably located for a straight-in approach
(e.g. due to wind conditions).
Approach Preparation
The flight crew performs the approach
preparation before starting the descent, including tuning of the reference
navaids. They should include the following additional items in the  FMS  programming:
F-PLN
Lateral: Enter STAR, instrument approach
procedure, including the missed approach procedure for instrument
approach.  Vertical:
Insert
F
speed as constraint
at  FAF  since the circling approach will be flown in  CONF 3 , landing gear down and
F
speed. Check altitude constraints.
SEC F-PLN
When planning for a circling approach, the landing runway will be
inserted into the SEC F-PLN. The crew will update the SEC F-PLN as
follows:
SEC F-PLN then
COPY ACTIVE
Lateral revision
on destination and insert landing runway
Keep the F-PLN
discontinuity.
ARRIVAL Briefing
The flight crew should perform
the arrival briefing with additional items specific to the circling
procedure:
Circling minima
as published on the Approach chart or as per Company Operations Manual
Direction of
circling, if restricted according to the Approach chart, e.g. due
to terrain. It is preferable that  PF  should be on the same
side as the direction of circling, e.g. for circling to the left,  PF  should be  CM1
Significant
obstacles in airport vicinity
Technique to
be used (e.g.  AP  and  A/THR ,  FPV )
and configuration
Action in the
case of loss of visual references.
Final Instrument Approach
The flight crew flies an early stabilized
approach at
F
speed,  CONF 3  and landing gear down.  The flight crew can perform the LANDING  C/L  except the FLAPS for landing. They will check the configuration
for landing during the final turn.
Circling Approach
The flight crew must
conduct the flight within the circling area, while maintaining required
visual references at all times.
The following can be used to
assist the flight crew in the circling approach pattern:
Selected modes
with  AP  are recommended. Waypoints can be entered before
the approach to assist the flight crew in the circling approach pattern.
However, they must not fly this pattern with  AP  engaged
in  NAV  mode
The  ND  in ROSE mode with a low range can be used for situational awareness
In support to
the timing technique, the flight crew should initiate the base turn
when the aircraft is approximately on the  45  angle of the
runway threshold.
The flight crew should maintain  F  speed during the circling procedure to ensure that the aircraft
remains within the safe circling area (defined in  ICAO  PANS-OPS).
In regions where  FAA
TERPS  criteria apply, the
circling areas and limit speeds are more restrictive. Therefore, in
these regions, refer to the Company  SOP s.
At the Circling  MDA ( MDH ) at the latest:
Perform a level
off
At  MAP , if the flight
crew finds no visual reference:
Initiate a go-around
When required conditions for
circling are satisfied:
Select TRK-FPA
Preselect a
track of  45  away from the final approach course (or as required
by the published procedure)
When wings level,
start the CHRONO
After approximately  30  select the downwind track parallel to the landing runway
At any time
in the downwind leg, activate the SEC F-PLN to display the landing
runway and to take credit of the Ground Speed Mini function in final
approach when managed speed is used. However, the flight crew should
avoid a too early activation of the SEC F-PLN in order to keep the
missed approach procedure of the instrument approach within the  FMS  if a go-around is necessary
When the aircraft
is abeam the runway threshold, start the CHRONO. The time from abeam
threshold to the beginning of the base turn depends on the height
above touchdown: Approximately  3  / 100 .
Disconnect the  AP  and remove the  FD s at the latest before starting
the descent toward the runway. Keep the  A/THR  active
To perform the
final turn, initially maintain  25  bank angle and
maintain the altitude until the visual references for the intended
runway are distinctly visible and identifiable
Set the landing
configuration when appropriate, but ensure early stabilization in
final
When the aircraft
is fully configured for landing, complete LANDING  C/L .
If, at
any time during the circling procedure, the required visual references
are lost, the main objective is to climb and to leave the circling
area into the missed approach of the initial instrument approach,
while remaining within the obstacle-free area, unless otherwise specified.  When the SEC F-PLN is activated, the
go-around procedure in the  FMS  is associated with the landing
runway, and not with the instrument approach. Therefore, if visual
references are lost during the circling approach, the flight crew
should fly the go-around using selected guidance, following the pre-briefed
missed approach procedure, unless otherwise specified.  For circling approach with one engine
inoperative,  .
Circling Approach Pattern
Circling Approach Pattern
Initial
Initial Approach
The flight crew must keep in mind that
the pattern is flown visually. However, the cross track error on  ND  is a good cue of the aircraft lateral position versus the
runway centerline. This indication can be obtained when performing
a DIR TO radial inbound on the last available waypoint, positionned
on the extended runway centerline.
The flight crew will aim to
get the following configuration at beginning of the downwind leg:
Both  AP  and  FD s will be selected off
BIRD ON
A/THR  confirmed active in speed mode, i.e. SPEED on the  FMA
Managed speed
will be used to enable the " GS  mini" function
The downwind
track will be selected on the  FCU  to assist in downwind
tracking
The downwind
track altitude will be set on  FCU .
Intermediate / Final Approach
Intermediate / Final Approach
Assuming a  1500  AAL circuit, the base turn should be commenced  45  after passing abeam the downwind threshold ( 3 / 100  +/-  1 / 1  of headwind / tailwind).  The final turn onto the runway centreline will be commenced with  20  angle of bank. Initially the rate of descent should be  400 , increasing to  700  when established on the correct
descent path  The pilot will aim to be configured
for landing at  VAPP  by  500  AAL, at the latest.
If not stabilised, a go-around must be carried out.
Visual Approach
General
CAT  II and  CAT  III approaches are flown to very low  DH  (or without  DH ) with very low  RVR . The guidance of the aircraft
on the  ILS  beam and the guidance of the aircraft speed
must be consistently of high performance and accurate so that an automatic
landing and roll out can be performed in good conditions and, the
acquisition of visual cues is achieved and the aircraft properly stabilized.
Hence,
The automatic
landing is required in  CAT  III operations including roll
out in  CAT  IIIB.
The automatic
landing is the preferred landing technique in  CAT  II conditions
Any failures
of the automated systems shall not significantly affect the aircraft
automatic landing system performance
The crew procedures
and task sharing allow to rapidly detect any anomaly and thus lead
to the right decision
Definition
Definition
DECISION HEIGHT
The Decision Height ( DH ) is the wheel height above the runway elevation by which a go around
must be initiated unless appropriate visual reference has been established
and the aircraft position and the approach path have been assessed
as satisfactory to continue the automatic approach and landing safely.
The  DH  is based on  RA .
ALERT HEIGHT
The Alert Height (AH) is the height above
the runway, based on the characteristics of the aeroplane and its
fail-operational automatic landing system, above which a  CAT III approach would be discontinued and a missed approach initiated
if a failure occurred in one of the redundant parts of
the automatic landing system, or in the relevant ground equipment.  In others AH definition, it is generally stated that if a failure
affecting the fail-operational criteria occurs below the AH, it would
be ignored and the approach continued (except if AUTOLAND warning
is triggered). The AH concept is relevant when  CAT  3 DUAL
is displayed on  FMA .  On single aisle Airbus family, the AH = 100 .
CAT  3 SINGLE
CAT  3 SINGLE is announced
when the airborne systems are fail passive which means that a single
failure will lead to the  AP  disconnection without any significant
out of trim condition or deviation of the flight path or attitude.
Manual flight is then required. This minimum  DH  is  50 .
CAT  3 DUAL
CAT  3 DUAL is announced
when the airborne systems are fail-operational. In case of a single
failure, the  AP  will continue to guide the aircraft on
the flight path and the automatic landing system will operate as a
fail-passive system. In the event of a failure below the AH, the approach,
flare and landing can be completed by the remaining part of the automatic
system. In that case, no capability degradation is indicated. Such
a redundancy allows  CAT  III operations with or without  DH .
Flight Preparation
FLIGHT PREPARATION
In addition to the normal flight
preparation, the following preparation must be performed when  CAT  II or  CAT  III approach is planned:
Ensure that
destination airport meets  CAT  II or  CAT  III
requirements
Check aircraft
required equipment for  CAT  2 or  CAT  3 in QRH
Check that crew
qualification is current
Consider extra
fuel for possible approach delay
Consider weather
at alternate
Approach Preparation
Approach Preparation
LIMITATIONS
The crew will
check that tower wind remains within the limit for  CAT  II
or  CAT  III approaches ( )
The autoland
maximum altitude must be observed.
AIRCRAFT CAPABILITY
The failures that may affect the aircraft's  CAT  2 or  CAT  3 capability are listed in the  QRH . Most of these failures are monitored by the FMGS and the
landing capability will be displayed on the  FMA  once the  APPR  pb is pressed, i.e.  CAT  2,  CAT  3
SINGLE,  CAT  3 DUAL.  However, there are a number of failures
which affect the aircraft's landing capability which are not monitored
by the FMGS and, consequently, not reflected on the  FMA . It is very important, therefore, that the crew refer to the QRH
to establish the actual landing capability if some equipment are listed
inoperative.
AIRPORT FACILITIES
The airport authorities are
responsible for establishing and maintaining the equipment required
for  CAT  II/III approach and landing. The airport authorities
will activate the LVP procedures as the need arises based on  RVR . Prior to planning a  CAT  II/III approach, the
crew must ensure that LVP are in force.
CREW QUALIFICATION
The captain must ensure that
both crew members are qualified and that their qualification is current
for the planned approach.
SEATING POSITION
The crew must realise the importance
of eye position during low visibility approaches and landing. A too
low seat position may greatly reduce the visual segment. When the
eye reference position is lower than intended, the visual segment
is further reduced by the cut-off angle of the glareshield or nose.
As a rule of thumb, an incorrect seating position which reduces the
cut-off angle by  1  reduces the visual segment by
approximately  10  ( 30 ).
USE OF LANDING LIGHTS
The use of landing lights at
night in low visibility can be detrimental to the acquisition of visual
reference. Reflected lights from water droplets or snow may actually
reduce visibility. The landing lights would, therefore, not normally
be used in  CAT  II/III weather conditions.
APPROACH STRATEGY
Regardless of the actual weather conditions, the crew should plan
the approach using the best approach capability. This would normally
be  CAT  3 DUAL with autoland, depending upon aircraft status.
The crew should then assess the weather with respect to possible downgrade
capability.
Conditions
CAT  I
CAT  II
CAT  III
WITH  DH
NO  DH
Flying technique
Manual flying or
AP / FD ,  A/THR
AP / FD ,  A/THR  down to  DH
AP / FD /ATHR and Autoland
Minima & weather
DA  ( DH ) Baro ref Visibility
DH  with  RA
RVR
Autoland
Possible with precautions
Recommended
Mandatory
GO AROUND STRATEGY
The crew must be ready mentally for go-around
at any stage of the approach. Should a failure occur above  1000
RA , all  ECAM  actions (and  DH  amendment
if required) should be completed before reaching  1000
RA , otherwise a go-around should be initiated. This ensures
proper task sharing for the remainder of the approach.
Arrival BRIEFING
Before commencing a  CAT  II/III
approach a number of factors must be considered by the crew. In addition
to the standard arrival briefing, the following points should be emphasised
during an arrival briefing for a low visibility approach:
Aircraft capability
Airport facilities
Crew qualification
Weather minima
Task sharing
Call-outs
Go-around strategy
Approach Procedure
Approach Procedure
Task sharing
The workload is distributed in such a
way that the  PF  primary tasks are supervising and decision
making and the  PM  primary task is monitoring the operation
of the automatic system.
PF Tasks
The  PF  supervises the approach (trajectory, attitude,
speed) and takes appropriate decision at  DH  or in case
of failure.
Since the approach is flown
with  AP  /  FD  /  A/THR , the  PF  must be continuously ready to take-over:
If any  AP  hard over is experienced
If a major failure
occurs
If any doubt
arises.
The  PF  announces
" LAND ", when displayed on  FMA .
PM Tasks
For aircraft without  HUD  or with single  HUD , the  PM  is head down throughout the automatic approach
and automatic landing.  For aircraft with DUAL  HUD , the  PM  may be head up or head down.
The  PM  monitors:
The  FMA  and calls all mode changes below  350  as required (i.e.
after  PF  calls " LAND ")
The Auto call
out
The aircraft
trajectory or attitude exceedance
Any failures.
The  PM  should be
go-around minded.
Approach - General Information
Below  700
RA , data coming from the  FMS  is frozen e.g.:  ILS  tune inhibit
Below  400
RA , the  FCU  is frozen
At  350 ,
LAND
must be
displayed on  FMA . This ensures correct final approach guidance
Below  200 , the  AUTOLAND  warning is triggered if:
Both  AP s trip off
Excessive beam
deviation is sensed
Localizer or
glide slope transmitter or receiver fails
A  RA  discrepancy of at least  15  is sensed.
FLARE  comes at  40
THR
IDLE  comes at  30
RETARD auto
call out comes at  10  for autoland as an order (Instead
of  20  for manual landing as a reminder).
Visual References
Approaching the  DH , the  PF  starts to look for visual references, progressively increasing
external scanning.  It should be stressed that the  DH  is
the lower limit of the decision zone. The captain should come to this
zone prepared for a go-around but with no pre-established judgement.
Required conditions to continue:
With  DH :  In  CAT  II
operations, the conditions required at  DH  to continue the
approach are that the visual references should be appropriate to monitor
the continued approach and landing and that the flight path should
be acceptable. If both these conditions are not satisfied, it is mandatory
to initiate a go-around.  In  CAT  III
operations, the condition required at  DH  is that there
should be visual references which confirm that the aircraft is over
the touch down zone. Go-around is mandatory if the visual references
do not confirm this.
Without  DH :  The decision to continue
does not depend on visual references, even though a minimum  RVR  is specified. The decision depends only on the operational status
of the aircraft and ground equipment. If a failure occurs prior to
reaching the AH, a go-around will be initiated. A go-around must nevertheless
be performed if  AUTOLAND  warning is triggered
below AH. However, it is good airmanship for the  PF  to
acquire visual cues during flare and to monitor the roll out.
Loss of visual reference
With  DH  before touch down:  If decision to continue
has been made by  DH  and the visual references subsequently
become inappropriate, a go-around must be initiated.  A late go-around may
result in ground contact.  If touch down occurs after  TOGA  is engaged, the  AP  remains engaged in that mode and  A/THR  remains in  TOGA . The ground spoilers and auto-brake
are inhibited.
With  DH  or without  DH  after touch down:  If visual references
are lost after touch down, a go-around should not be attempted. The
roll-out should be continued with  AP  in  ROLL OUT  mode down to taxi speed.
Flare/landing/roll out
During the flare, decrab and roll-out,
the  PF  will look outside to assess that the autoland is
properly carried out, considering the appropriate visual references.  For  CAT  II approaches, autoland
is recommended. If manual landing is preferred, the  PF  will
take-over at  80  at the latest. This ensures a smooth transition
for the manual landing.  Pull to  REV
MAX  (or  REV
IDLE  if conditions
permits) at main landing gear touchdown (not before).
The use of auto-brake is recommended
as it ensures a symmetrical brake pressure application. However, the
flight crew should be aware of possible dissymmetry in case of crosswind
and wet runways.
The  PM  should make the standard callouts and advise  ATC  when the landing roll is completed.
Autoland in CAT I or Better Weather Conditions
Autoland in CAT I or Better Weather Conditions
The flight crew may wish to practice
automatic landings in  CAT  I or better weather conditions
for training purposes. This type of approach should be carried out
only with the airline authorization. The flight crew should be aware
that fluctuations of the  LOC  and/or  GS  might
occur due to the fact that protection of  ILS  sensitive
areas, which applies during  LVP , will not necessarily be
in force. It is essential, therefore, that the  PF  is prepared
to take over manually at any time during a practice approach and rollout,
should the performance of the  AP  become unsatisfactory.
Position Crosscheck and Position Update Techniques
Position Crosscheck Technique
The principle consists in comparing
the  FMS  position with the RADIO position (aircraft real
position).
Position Crosscheck
The flight crew inserts a radio ident
in  MCDU
PROG  page (which provides a bearing/distance
relative to  FMS  position). Then, the flight crew compares
these values with raw data received from the  NAVAID  that
indicates the real position of the aircraft. This enables to quantify
the error ε.
Position Crosscheck Technique
On the  ND , the flight crew
can compare the positions of the needle and associated  DME  distance with the  NAVAID  symbol and associated distance.
DME  bearing and distance indicate the real position of
the aircraft.  The range markers indicate the
distance associated with the  NAVAID  symbol. These markers
provide a bearing/distance, in relation to the  FMS  position.
Position Crosscheck Technique on the ND
Position Update
In case of an obvious and major
map shift noticed by specific messages such as  CHECK A/C POSITION ,  FMS1/FMS2 POS DIFF , the aircraft position may be updated on the MCDU PROG page. Two
techniques are available:
The recommended
technique is to carry out a  FMS  update over a beacon by
pressing the UPDATE key when the flight crew estimates that the aircraft
overflies the beacon using the associated needle. The potential error
induced is approximately  4  to  5 . When the position
update is achieved, the  EPE  (Estimated Position Error)
is automatically set to a higher value and the navigation accuracy
is low.
The second technique
consists in updating the  FM  position when flying over a
Point/Bearing/Distance (P/B/D) with reference to beacon raw data (Needle
+ Distance) rather than the beacon itself. The potential for error
is far less when the distance is greater than  60 . The flight
crew will keep in mind the potential  180  error on bearing.
FM  Position Update in Flight
General
General
The aircraft Gross Weight ( GW ) and Centre of Gravity ( CG ) are computed independently
by the  FM  and  FAC :
GW  and  CG  values  FM  computed are used for:
FM  predictions and speeds
ECAM  ( GW )
MCDU  ( GW  and  CG ).
GW  and  CG  values FAC computed are used for:
Flight control
laws
Computation
of characteristic speeds ( VLS , F, S,  GD ) for
display on  PFD .
A  ZFW  or  ZFWCG  entry error in MCDU INIT B page induces calculation errors that
are to be highlighted.
General
General
The aircraft Gross Weight ( GW ) and Centre of Gravity ( CG ) are computed independently
by the  FM  and  FAC :
GW  and  CG  values  FM  computed are used for:
FM  predictions and speeds
ECAM  ( GW )
MCDU  ( GW  and  CG )
Computation
of characteristic speeds ( VLS , F, S,  GD ) for
display on  PFD
GW  and  CG  values FAC computed are used for:
Flight control
laws
A  ZFW  or  ZFWCG  entry error in MCDU INIT B page induces
calculation errors that are to be highlighted.
Technical Background
Technical Background
The  GW  and  CG  computation is as follows:
The flight crew
enters the  ZFW  and  ZFWCG  in the INIT B page.
The  FMGC  computes
the  GW  and  CG  from:
The  ZFW ,  ZFWCG  inserted in the INIT B page
The fuel quantities
from the  FQI
The Fuel Flow
from the  FADEC .
This current  GW  and/or  CG  is used for:
FM  predictions and speeds
ECAM  ( GW  only)
MCDU  ( GW  and  CG ).
The  FAC  computes its own  GW  and  CG  from aerodynamic
data.
GW  and  CG
FAC  computed are used for:
Minor adjustments
on the flight control laws
Characteristic
speeds ( VLS , F, S, Green dot) display on  PFD .
GW and CG Computation and Use
On ground,  FAC  uses the  GW
FM  computed.
In flight, at
low altitude (below  14625 ), low speed (below  250 ) and flight parameters stabilized,  GW
FAC  computed
comes from aerodynamic data. If these conditions are not met,  GW
FAC  computed equates to the last memorized  GW  minus fuel used.
If the  GW
FM  computed and  FAC  computed differs
from a given threshold, a  CHECK GW  message appears on the  MCDU  scratchpad.
Technical Background
Technical Background
The  GW  and  CG  computation is as follows:
The flight crew
enters the  ZFW  and  ZFWCG  in the INIT B page.
The  FMGC  computes
the  GW  and  CG  from:
The  ZFW ,  ZFWCG  inserted in the INIT B page
The fuel quantities
from the  FQI
The Fuel Flow
from the  FADEC .
This current  GW  and/or  CG  is used:
For  FM  predictions and speeds
For  ECAM  display ( GW  only)
For  MCDU  ( GW  and  CG )
By  FAC  for characteristic speed computation for  PFD .
The  FAC  computes its own  GW  and  CG  from aerodynamic
data.
GW  and  CG
FAC  computed are used for minor adjustments
on the flight control laws.
GW and CG Computation and Use
On ground,  FAC  uses the  GW
FM  computed.
In flight, at
low altitude (below  14625 ), low speed (below  250 ) and flight parameters stabilized,  GW
FAC  computed
comes from aerodynamic data. If these conditions are not met,  GW
FAC  computed equates to the last memorized  GW  minus fuel used.
If the  GW
FM  computed and  FAC  computed differs
from a given threshold, a  CHECK GW  message appears on the  MCDU  scratchpad.
ZFW Entry Error and Operational Consequences
ZFW Entry Error and Operational Consequences
If the pilot enters erroneous  ZFW  on MCDU INIT B page, this will affect as follows:
GW  and, to a lesser
degree,  CG , computed by  FM  are erroneous. This
induces the following consequences:
The  FM  predictions and speeds are erroneous
Incorrect  GW  and  CG  on  MCDU  FUEL  PRED  page
Incorrect  GW  displayed on  ECAM
FAC  GW , which is
based on FM GW on ground, will be updated only once airborne through
a specific slow calculation using  AOA  information. Consequently,
Characteristic
speeds on  PFD  at take-off are erroneous, but they are correct
in flight
SRS  mode guidance is affected if computed  VLS  is above  V2  as inserted in the MCDU PERF TAKE-OFF page.
In flight, if
the  FM  and FAC  GW  differ from a given threshold,
a "CHECK GW" message is triggered on the  MCDU .
Valpha prot,
Valpha max, Vsw are not affected since based on aerodynamic data.
ERRONEOUS FUEL ON BOARD ENTRY
As long
as the engines are not started, the FM GW is erroneous and above-mentioned
consequences apply. Once the engines are started, the fuel figures
are updated and downstream data update accordingly.  It should be noted however, that the  FOB  on  ECAM  is correct since it is provided from  FQI  data.
ZFW Entry Error and Operational Consequences
ZFW Entry Error and Operational Consequences
If the pilot enters erroneous  ZFW  on MCDU INIT B page, this will affect as follows:
GW  and, to a lesser
degree,  CG , computed by  FM  are erroneous. This
induces the following consequences:
The  FM  predictions and speeds are erroneous
Incorrect  GW  and  CG  on  MCDU  FUEL  PRED  page
Incorrect  GW  displayed on  ECAM
Characteristic
speeds on  PFD  are erroneous
SRS  mode guidance is affected if computed  VLS  is above  V2  as inserted in the MCDU PERF TAKE-OFF page.
GW  FAC computed, which is based on GW FM computed on ground, will be
updated only once airborne through a specific slow calculation using  AOA  information.
In flight, if
the  FM  and FAC  GW  differ from a given threshold,
a "CHECK GW" message is triggered on the  MCDU .
Valpha prot,
Vaalpha max, Vsw are not affected since based on aerodynamic data.
ERRONEOUS FUEL ON BOARD ENTRY
As long
as the engines are not started, the FM GW is erroneous and above-mentioned
consequences apply. Once the engines are started, the fuel figures
are updated and downstream data update accordingly.  It should be noted however, that the  FOB  on  ECAM  is correct since it is provided from  FQI  data.
Operational Recommendations
Operational Recommendations
ZFW  entries should be cross-checked by both crewmembers to avoid entry
error.  If the
"CHECK  GW " amber warning is displayed on the  MCDU , a significant discrepancy exists between the  FM  computed  GW  and the FAC computed  GW .
The crew will compare the Load
and Trim Sheet (LTS) figures with the FM GW and fuel used:
If an obvious
entry error is detected, FM  GW  will be updated on the  MCDU  FUEL  PRED  page.
If  FM  and  LTS
GW  are in accordance and appear to
be correct, the FAC computed  GW  should be suspected ( AOA  sensor problem). Consequently, characteristic speeds on  PFD  are erroneous and should be disregarded. Characteristic
speeds should be extracted from QRH.
If  FM  and  LTS
GW  are in accordance but LTS  GW  is suspected, FAC and QRH characteristic speeds should be
compared (to validate FAC outputs) and the most appropriate applied.
Operational Recommendations
Operational Recommendations
ZFW  entries should be cross-checked by both crewmembers to avoid entry
error.  If the
"CHECK  GW " amber warning is displayed on the  MCDU , a discrepancy exists between the  FM  computed  GW  and the FAC computed  GW .
The crew will compare the Load
and Trim Sheet (LTS) figures with the  FM
GW  and
fuel used:
If an obvious
entry error is detected, FM  GW  will be updated on the  MCDU  FUEL  PRED  page.
If  FM  and  LTS
GW  are in accordance and appear to
be correct, the FAC computed  GW  should be suspected ( AOA  sensor problem).
If  FM  and  LTS
GW  are in accordance but LTS  GW  is suspected, characteristic speeds should be extracted
from QRH.
General
This  FCTM  chapter provides
basic knowledge on the use of onboard weather radars. To get all the
information on the characteristics, limitations and operational recommendations
of each radar, refer to the user guide of the radar manufacturer.
Weather detection is based on the reflectivity
of water droplets. The weather echo appears on the  ND  with
a color scale that goes from red (high reflectivity) to green (low
reflectivity).  The intensity
of the weather echo is associated with the droplet size, composition
and quantity (e.g. the reflectivity of a water particle is five times
more than an ice particle of the same size). The flight crew must
be aware that the weather radar does not detect weather that has small
droplets (e.g. clouds or fog), or that does not have droplets (e.g.
clear air turbulence).
Weather Radar Principle
The purpose of the weather radar is to
help the flight crew detect and avoid storm cells (e.g. cumulonimbus).
Due to its large vertical expansion, a storm cell does not have the
same reflectivity depending on the altitude. The quantity of liquid
water in the atmosphere decreases with the altitude. Therefore the
reflectivity of a storm cell decreases with the altitude.  The upper detection limit of
the weather radar is called the radar top.  The flight
crew must be aware of both of the following:
The radar top
is not the visible top of the storm cell
The storm cell
and associated turbulence extend significantly above the radar top.
Reflective Image of a Cumulonimbus
Weather Detection
The flight crew uses the following controls
and functions to operate the weather radar:
TILT
GAIN
RANGE.
Manual Tilt management
The tilt refers to the angle between
the antenna beam centerline and the horizon.  The radar uses data from the  IRS  to stabilize its antenna. Therefore, the antenna tilt is independent
of the aircraft pitch and bank angle.
Tilt Angle Definition
The flight crew should regularly scan
the area ahead of the aircraft, at several  ND  ranges. In
order to identify the strongest weather returns, the flight crew should
tilt the weather radar antenna up and down.  To obtain a correct display of a storm
cell, the flight crew must use the tilt knob to point the weather
radar beam to the most reflective part of the storm cell. A correct
tilt setting prevents the overscanning of the storm cell.
Common practice is to ensure
that the ground return is at the top of the  ND  screen.
Correct Storm Display
At high altitude, a storm cell may contain
ice particles that have low reflectivity. If the tilt setting is not
correct, the  ND  may display only the upper (less reflective)
part of a storm cell (overscanning). As a result, the flight crew
may underestimate or not detect a storm cell.
Overscanning
GAIN setting for weather detection
The flight crew should use the calibrated
gain (CAL or  AUTO ) for weather detection as a default mode
for the weather radar. The use of the calibrated gain ensures a standard
display of the colors on the  ND . The flight crew can manually
tune the gain to analyze storm cells.  .
Range Management
The flight crew should monitor both the
long-distance and short-distance weather, in order to be able to efficiently
plan appropriate course changes, and to avoid the “blind alley effect.  .  At long distance ahead of the aircraft,
the accuracy of the weather displayed is low, due to both of the following:
The increase
in the width of the weather radar beam
Signal attenuation.
Therefore,
the accuracy of the weather displayed is better for short-distance
weather.
Accuracy of the Weather Display
Use of the Weather Radar in Accordance with the Flight Phase
Manual Tilt
Manual Weather Radars
(or Automatic Weather Radars in Manual Tilt Mode)
Flight Phase
Tilt Setting
Comments
TAXI / TAKEOFF
Manually and gradually
tilt up to scan weather (maximum  15  up). Then set
tilt to  4  up.
Check the departure
path.
CLIMB
Adjust the  ND  range as required and decrease the tilt angle as the aircraft climbs.
Compensation of the
altitude increase to avoid overscanning.
LEVEL FLIGHT/CRUISE
Adjust  ND  range as required
Regularly modify
the tilt to scan the weather ahead of the aircraft
When the weather
scan is completed, adjust the tilt so that the ground returns appear
on the top of the  ND
.
In cruise, the combination of
the following  ND  ranges provides good weather awareness
:
160  on the  PM
ND
80  on the  PF
ND .
Use shorter  ND  ranges to track/avoid short-distance weather.
DESCENT
During descent, adjust
the tilt to maintain the ground returns on the top of the  ND .
-
APPROACH
Set the tilt to  4  up.
This tilt setting
( 4  up) prevents the display of too many ground returns.
For aircraft equipped with a
manual weather radar that has only one tilt control knob, use an average
tilt value to suit both  ND  ranges.
It is difficult to identify
the difference between weather returns and ground returns: A change
in the tilt setting causes the shape and color of ground returns to
rapidly change. These ground returns eventually disappear. This is
not the case for weather returns.
For flights above the water,
there are no ground returns. Therefore, the flight crew can use any
of the following tilt settings at cruise altitude as an initial value
before adjustment:
Approximately  -6  for an  ND  range of  40 , or
Approximately  -2  for an  ND  range of  80 , or
Approximately  -1  for an  ND  range of  160 , or
Approximately  -1  for an  ND  range of  320 .
Automatic Tilt Control
Automatic Weather
Radars
Flight Phase
Tilt Setting
Comments
TAXI / TAKEOFF
Manually and gradually
tilt up to scan weather (maximum  15  up). Then set
tilt to  AUTO .
Check the departure
path.
IN FLIGHT
Adjust  ND  range as required.
Set tilt to  AUTO .  Use manual tilt for
storm cell analysis, then set tilt back to  AUTO .  Regularly perform
manual scans to enhance weather awareness, then set tilt back to  AUTO .
In cruise, the combination of
the following  ND  ranges provides good weather awareness:
160  on the  PM
ND
80  on the  PF
ND .
Use shorter  ND  ranges to track/avoid short-distance weather.
Analysis of Weather Radar Data
Interpretation of the colors of the weather displayed on the  ND
Particle reflectivity of a storm cell
is independent of the potential weather hazard in the storm cell.  There can be a high percentage of humidity
in the atmosphere, when near the sea. In this case, thermal convection
will produce clouds that are full of water. These clouds will have
a high reflectivity, but may not necessarily be a high threat.  On the other hand, in equatorial overland
regions where specific converging winds produce large-scale uplifts
of dry air. As a result, these storm cells have lower reflectivity
than mid-latitude storm cells, and therefore can be difficult to detect.
However turbulence in, or above these clouds may have a higher intensity
than indicated by the image on the weather radar display.  The flight crew must not underestimate
a storm cell with a high vertical expansion, even if the weather return
is low.
Specific Weather Shapes
The flight crew should carefully observe
shapes, more than colors, in order to detect adverse weather conditions.  Areas of different colors that are near
to one another usually indicate zones of severe turbulence.  Some shapes are good indicators of severe
hail and signify strong vertical drafts. Shapes that change quickly,
whatever form they take, also indicate high weather activity.
Specific Weather Shapes
Blind Alley Effect
The flight crew should determine appropriate
course changes to avoid adverse weather conditions, with the use of
both high and short  ND  ranges. This technique avoids the
“blind alley effect", defined by the following: A course change
that may appear safe with a short  ND  range, may be blocked
when observed with a higher  ND  range.
Blind Alley Effect
Attenuation effect
In areas of heavy precipitation, an important
part of the weather radar signal is reflected by the frontal part
of the precipitation due to its strong reflectivity. Therefore, the
area behind the precipitation returns low signals, that appears as
green or black areas (storm shadows).  Attenuation of long-distance weather
or attenuation of ground returns can help the flight crew to identify
an area of heavy precipitation that may be a very active storm cell.
Some radars provide an indication
on the  ND  to highlight areas that may be affected by attenuation:
PAC alert on Collins radars
REACT function on Honeywell radars .
On a weather radar display,
the flight crew should always consider a black hole behind a red area
as a potentially very active zone.
Use of Attenuation Effect to Identify an Active Storm Cell
Use of Manual gain for weather analysis
To assess the general weather conditions,
the flight crew can use manual gain.  Manual gain adjusts the color calibration
of the radar. Therefore, the weather will appear either stronger (gain
increased) or weaker (gain reduced).  When operating in heavy rain, the weather
radar picture can be saturated. In this case, manually reduce the
gain will help the flight crew to identify the areas of heaviest rainfall,
that are usually associated with active storm cells.
After a storm cell analysis,
the flight crew must set the GAIN knob back to AUTO/CAL.
Use of Reduced gain to Identify Heaviest Rainfall
Radar Interference
High power external radio frequency sources
that operate at a frequency next to the frequency of the weather radar
may create interferences. These interferences may result in a not
usual return display on the  ND . The radar return will appear
as a single wedge that extends out along the  ND  toward
the source of interference.  The width
and color of the interference may differ on the  ND , depending
on the distance to the source and its strength.  This interference does not damage the
radar system, and will disappear as soon as the source of interference
is outside the limit of the radar scan zone.
Radar interference may also
be known as ‘spoking’ or ‘alien radar’.
Radar Interference
Analysis of Weather Radar Data
Assessment of the Vertical Expansion of a Storm Cell
The assessment of the vertical expansion
of a detected storm cell enables the flight crew to assess the convective
energy of the storm cell and therefore to identify its potential threat.
The flight crew can increase
the gain in order to obtain a more visible display of the top of the
storm cell (that contains less reflective ice particles).
When flying
towards a cell, the flight crew can estimate the vertical expansion
of the cloud above/below the aircraft altitude with the following
formula:
h(ft)  is the difference between the radar top altitude and the aircraft
altitude.
d(NM)  is the distance between the aircraft
and the storm cell.
Tilt(°)  is the tilt setting for which the
storm cell image disappears from the  ND .
Example : A weather return that disappears from the ND at  40  with a tilt setting of  1  down, indicates that the top of
the storm cell is  4000  below the aircraft altitude.
Assessment of the Vertical Expansion of a Storm Cell
Operations in Convective Weather
The flight crew should apply the following
operational recommendations in convective weather conditions. These
recommendations are applicable in addition to basic knowledge of meteorology
and of operation in adverse weather conditions.
Weather
detection:
Always consider
that a convective cloud may be dangerous, even if the weather echo
is weak. Remember that the weather radar detects only water droplets
Frequent lightning
may indicate an area with high probability of severe turbulence
Remember that
the  TURB  function detects areas of wet turbulence only
Avoidance
decision:
Establish an
"area of greatest threat" based on the locations and shape
of the strongest weather radar echoes, and on the meteorological knowledge
of the flight crew. This "area of greatest threat" corresponds
to the zone where the flight crew estimates that the weather conditions
are too dangerous to fly in
The weather
hazard prediction function (if installed) indicates zones with a high
probability of weather hazards (hail or lightning). Avoidance of the
detected weather always has priority over avoidance of the weather
hazards. As a priority, apply the recommendations to avoid storms,
and avoid hazard areas as much as possible
Initiate your
avoidance maneuver as early as possible. As the aircraft gets nearer
to the convective weather zone, the information from the weather radar
often becomes partial. Consider a minimum distance of  40  from the convective cloud to make the decision for avoidance maneuver.
Avoidance
technique:
If possible,
perform lateral avoidance instead of vertical avoidance. Vertical
avoidance is in general not recommended, particularly at high altitude,
due to the reduction of buffet and performance margins. In addition,
some convective clouds may have a significant and unpredictable build-up
speed.
Lateral avoidance:
If possible,
deviate upwind instead of downwind. Usually, there is less turbulence
and hail upwind of a convective cloud
If possible,
avoid the identified “area of greatest threat” by at least  20
Apply an additional
margin if the convective clouds are very dynamic
Vertical avoidance:
Avoid flying
below a convective cloud, even in visual conditions, due to possible
severe turbulence, windshear, microbursts, lightning strikes and hail.
If an aircraft must fly below a convective cloud, the flight crew
should take into account all indications (visual judgement, weather
radar, weather report, pilot’s report, etc.) before they take the
final decision
For flight above
a convective cloud, apply a vertical margin of  5000  from the identified “area of greatest threat”.
Use of Brake Fans
Delaying brake fans selection limits
the oxidation of any possible transient hot spots of the brake disk
surface. The selection of the brake fans, before the aircraft reaches
the gate, prevents to blow carbon brake dust on the ground personnel.
The brake fans blow dust during the first seconds of operation only.
Use of Brake Fans
The selection of the brake fans, before
the aircraft reaches the gate, prevents to blow carbon brake dust
on the ground personnel. The brake fans blow dust during the first
seconds of operation only.
Approach and landing techniques
A stabilized approach is essential for
achieving successful landings. It is imperative that the flare height
be reached at the appropriate airspeed and flight path angle. The  A/THR  and  FPV  are effective aids to the pilot.
VAPP  should be determined
with the wind corrections by using the  FMGS  functions.
As a reminder, when the aircraft is close to the ground, the wind
intensity tends to decrease and the wind direction to turn (direction
in degrees decreasing in the northern latitudes). Both effects may
reduce the head wind component close to the ground and the wind correction
to  VAPP  is there to compensate for this effect.  When the
aircraft is close to the ground, high sink rate should be avoided,
even in an attempt to maintain a close tracking of the glideslope.
Priority should be given to the attitude and sink rate. If a normal
touchdown distance is not possible, a go-around should be performed.  If the aircraft has reached the flare
height at  VAPP , with a stabilized flight path angle, the
normal  SOP  landing technique will lead to the right touchdown
attitude and airspeed.  During
the flare, the pilot should not concentrate on the airspeed, but only
on the attitude with external cues.  Specific  PM  call outs have
been reinforced for excessive pitch attitude at landing.
Flare and Touchdown
PITCH CONTROL
When approaching the ground, auto-trim
ceases and the flare law activates. During flare,  PF  will
have to apply a progressive and gentle back stick order until touchdown.
The flare law technique is thus very conventional.  Prior
to flare, avoid destabilization of the approach and steepening the
slope at low heights in attempts to target a shorter touchdown. If
a normal touchdown point cannot be achieved or if destabilization
occurs just prior to flare, a go-around (or rejected landing) should
be performed. The  PM  monitors the rate of descent and
should call " SINK RATE " if the
vertical speed is excessive prior to the flare.  From  stabilized
conditions , the flare height is about  30 .
This height varies due to the range of
typical operational conditions that can directly influence the rate
of descent.
Compared to typical sea level
flare heights for flat and adequate runway lengths, pilot need to
be aware of factors that will require an earlier flare, in particular:
High airport
elevation.  Increased altitude
will result in higher ground speeds during approach with associated
increase in descent rates to maintain the approach slope.
Steeper approach
slope (compared to nominal  3 ).
Tailwind.  Increased tailwind
will result in higher ground speed during approach with associated
increase in descent rates to maintain the approach slope.
Increasing runway
slope.  Increasing runway
slope and/or rising terrain in front of the runway will affect the
radio height callouts down to over flying the threshold used by the
flight crew to assess the height for the start of flare possibly causing
flare inputs to be late. The visual misperception of being high is
also likely.
Note that
the cumulative effect of any of the above factors combined for one
approach will require even more anticipation to perform an earlier
flare.  If the
flare is initiated too late then the pitch changes will not have sufficient
time to allow the necessary change to aircraft trajectory. Late, weak
or released flare inputs increase the risk of a hard landing.
Avoid under flaring.
The rate of
descent must be controlled prior to the initiation of the flare (rate
not increasing)
Start the flare
with positive ( or "prompt") backpressure on the sidestick
and holding as necessary
Avoid forward
stick movement once Flare initiated (releasing back-pressure is acceptable)
At  20 , the "RETARD" auto call-out reminds the pilot to retard thrust levers.
It is a reminder rather than an order. When best adapted, the pilot
will rapidly retard all thrust levers: depending on the conditions,
the pilot will retard earlier or later. However, the pilot must ensure
that all thrust levers are at IDLE detent at the latest at touchdown,
to ensure ground spoilers extension at touchdown. In order to assess
the rate of descent in the flare, and the aircraft position relative
to the ground, look well ahead of the aircraft. The typical pitch
increment in the flare is approximately  4 , which leads
to  -1  flight path angle associated with a  10  speed decay in the manoeuvre. Do not allow the aircraft to float
or do not attempt to extend the flare by increasing pitch attitude
in an attempt to achieve a perfectly smooth touchdown. A prolonged
float will increase both the landing distance and the risk of tail
strike.  After touch down, the pilot
must "fly" the nosewheel smoothly, but without delay, on
to the runway, and must be ready to counteract any residual pitch
up effect of the ground spoilers. However, the main part of the spoiler
pitch up effect is compensated by the flight control law itself.  It is not recommended to keep the nose high in order to increase
aircraft drag during the initial part of the roll-out, as this technique
is inefficient and increases the risk of tail strike. Furthermore,
if auto brake MED is used, it may lead to a hard nose gear touch down.
LATERAL and directional CONTROL
FINAL APPROACH
In crosswind conditions, a crabbed-approach
wings-level should be flown with the aircraft (cockpit) positioned
on the extended runway centerline until the flare.
FLARE
The objectives of the lateral
and directional control of the aircraft during the flare are:
To land on the
centerline, and
to minimize
the lateral loads on the main landing gear.
The recommended de-crab technique
is to use all of the following:
The rudder to
align the aircraft with the runway heading during the flare
The roll control,
if needed, to maintain the aircraft on the runway centerline. Any
tendency to drift downwind should be counteracted by an appropriate
lateral (roll) input on the sidestick.
In the case of strong crosswind,
in the de-crab phase, the PF should be prepared to add small bank
angle into the wind in order to maintain the aircraft on the runway
centerline. The aircraft may be landed with a partial de-crab (residual
crab angle up to about  5 ) to prevent an excessive bank.
This technique prevents wingtip/sharklet (or engine nacelle) strike
caused by an excessive bank angle.
As a consequence, this may result in touching down with some bank
angle into the wind (hence with the upwind landing gear first).
Flare and Touchdown
PITCH CONTROL
When approaching the ground,
auto-trim ceases and the flare law activates. During flare,  PF  will have to apply a progressive and gentle back stick order until
touchdown. The flare law technique is thus very conventional.  Prior to flare, avoid destabilization of the approach and steepening
the slope at low heights in attempts to target a shorter touchdown.
If a normal touchdown point cannot be achieved or if destabilization
occurs just prior to flare, a go-around (or rejected landing) should
be performed. The  PM  monitors the rate of descent and should
call " SINK RATE " if the vertical
speed is excessive prior to the flare.  From  stabilized conditions , the flare
height is about  30 .
This height varies due to the range of typical operational conditions
that can directly influence the rate of descent.
Compared to typical sea level
flare heights for flat and adequate runway lengths, pilot need to
be aware of factors that will require an earlier flare, in particular:
High airport
elevation.  Increased altitude
will result in higher ground speeds during approach with associated
increase in descent rates to maintain the approach slope.
Steeper approach
slope (compared to nominal  3 ).
Tailwind.  Increased tailwind
will result in higher ground speed during approach with associated
increase in descent rates to maintain the approach slope.
Increasing runway
slope.  Increasing runway
slope and/or rising terrain in front of the runway will affect the
radio height callouts down to over flying the threshold used by the
flight crew to assess the height for the start of flare possibly causing
flare inputs to be late. The visual misperception of being high is
also likely.
Note that the cumulative effect
of any of the above factors combined for one approach will require
even more anticipation to perform an earlier flare.  If the flare is initiated too late then the pitch changes will not
have sufficient time to allow the necessary change to aircraft trajectory.
Late, weak or released flare inputs increase the risk of a hard landing.
Avoid under flaring.
The rate of
descent must be controlled prior to the initiation of the flare (rate
not increasing)
Start the flare
with positive ( or "prompt") backpressure on the sidestick
and holding as necessary
Avoid forward
stick movement once Flare initiated (releasing back-pressure is acceptable)
At  20 , the "RETARD"
auto call-out reminds the pilot to retard thrust levers. It is a reminder
rather than an order. When best adapted, the pilot will rapidly retard
all thrust levers: depending on the conditions, the pilot will retard
earlier or later. However, the pilot must ensure that all thrust levers
are at IDLE detent at the latest at touchdown, to ensure ground spoilers
extension at touchdown.
The flare law is a direct stick
to elevator relationship. Therefore, when approaching the ground,
the ground effect will tend to pitch the nose down.  In addition,
thrust reduction will add to the nose down pitching moment. The pilot
should be ready to compensate for the nose down movement of the aircraft
with an appropriate sidestick input.  In order to assess the rate of descent in the flare, and the aircraft
position relative to the ground, look well ahead of the aircraft.
The typical pitch increment in the flare is approximately  4 , which leads to  -1  flight path angle associated
with a  10  speed decay in the manoeuvre. Do not allow
the aircraft to float or do not attempt to extend the flare by increasing
pitch attitude in an attempt to achieve a perfectly smooth touchdown.
A prolonged float will increase both the landing distance and the
risk of tail strike.  After touch down, the pilot
must "fly" the nosewheel smoothly, but without delay, on
to the runway, and must be ready to counteract any residual pitch
up effect of the ground spoilers. However, the main part of the spoiler
pitch up effect is compensated by the flight control law itself.  It is not recommended to keep the nose high in order to increase
aircraft drag during the initial part of the roll-out, as this technique
is inefficient and increases the risk of tail strike. Furthermore,
if auto brake MED is used, it may lead to a hard nose gear touch down.
LATERAL and directional CONTROL
FINAL APPROACH
In crosswind conditions, a crabbed-approach
wings-level should be flown with the aircraft (cockpit) positioned
on the extended runway centerline until the flare.
FLARE
The objectives of the lateral
and directional control of the aircraft during the flare are:
To land on the
centerline, and
to minimize
the lateral loads on the main landing gear.
The recommended de-crab technique
is to use all of the following:
The rudder to
align the aircraft with the runway heading during the flare
The roll control,
if needed, to maintain the aircraft on the runway centerline. Any
tendency to drift downwind should be counteracted by an appropriate
lateral (roll) input on the sidestick.
In the case of strong crosswind,
in the de-crab phase, the PF should be prepared to add small bank
angle into the wind in order to maintain the aircraft on the runway
centerline. The aircraft may be landed with a partial de-crab (residual
crab angle up to about  5 ) to prevent an excessive bank.
This technique prevents wingtip/sharklet (or engine nacelle) strike
caused by an excessive bank angle.
As a consequence, this may result in touching down with some bank
angle into the wind (hence with the upwind landing gear first).
Deceleration
Once on the ground, the importance
of the timely use of all means of stopping the aircraft cannot be
overemphasised. Three systems are involved in braking once the aircraft
is on the ground:
The ground spoilers
The thrust reversers
The wheel brakes.
The Ground Spoilers
When the aircraft touches down with at
least one main landing gear and when at least one thrust lever is
in the reverse sector, the ground spoilers partially automatically
deploy to ensure that the aircraft is properly sit down on ground.
Then, the ground spoilers automatically fully deploy. This is the
partial lift dumping function.  The ground
spoilers contribute to aircraft deceleration by increasing aerodynamic
drag at high speed. Wheel braking efficiency is improved due to the
increased load on the wheels. Additionally, the ground spoiler extension
signal is used for auto-brake activation.
Reverse Thrust Efficiency
Thrust reversers are more efficient at
high speeds: The flight crew must select reverse thrust immediately
after main landing gear touchdown.  Below  70 , thrust reversers
efficiency rapidly decreases. Below  60  with  REV
MAX  selected, engine stall may occur. Therefore, it is
recommended to reduce the reverse thrust to  REV  IDLE at  70 , and keep  REV  IDLE until taxi speed. However in an emergency
case, the flight crew must keep  REV
MAX  until
full-stop of the aircraft.  At taxi
speed, and not above, stow the thrust reversers before leaving the
runway, in order to avoid foreign object ingestion.
Reverse Thrust Selection
The selection of  REV
MAX  is the standard practice for landing.
Landing on DRY Runways
On DRY runways, the flight crew may select  REV  IDLE.
Landing on Wet Runways
On WET runways, the flight crew may select  REV  IDLE, if all the conditions  described in the SOP DESCENT
PREPARATION ( ) are satisfied.
Landing on Contaminated Runways
On contaminated runways, the flight crew
must select REV MAX.
Reminder on Landing Distance Computation at Dispatch for Dry
and Wet Runways
Definitions
ALD
The Actual Landing Distance is the distance used on a dry runway
from the crossing of the runway threshold at  50  until full-stop
of the aircraft, using maximum manual braking. No reverse thrust is
considered for the calculation of the ALD. The ALD is demonstrated
during flight test campaign for certification purpose.
RLD  dry
The Required Landing Distance
on a dry runway is a factored ALD. The factor is 1.67. ( RLD  dry = ALD x 1.67)
RLD  wet
The Required Landing Distance
on a wet runway is a factored ALD. The factor is 1.92 ( RLD  wet =  RLD  dry x 1.15)
Dispatch Conditions
For landing distance computation at dispatch,
the airline uses the  RLD .  Landing distances computed at dispatch
for wet runways provide only reduced margins in comparison with landing
distances achievable in operations with the use of REV IDLE. Sufficient
margins are restored when the flight crew uses REV MAX.  The runway slope is not considered for
the landing distance computation at dispatch.  On a destination airport with multiple
runways, the landing distance computation at dispatch may be performed
on the longest landing runway with no wind.  The expected landing runway may be used
for the landing distance computation at dispatch with forecast wind
at landing. If the wind condition changes at landing, the flight crew
must perform a new landing distance computation.
Landing with REV IDLE on Wet Runways
The landing distance computation at dispatch
( RLD ) does not consider  REV  IDLE operation.
Therefore, it is necessary to perform a computation to consider  REV  IDLE operation, as described in the SOP DESCENT PREPARATION
( ). This may be done
before the flight.  At descent preparation, if the flight
crew considers the use of  REV  IDLE on a wet runway, they
should be able to confirm a MEDIUM TO POOR landing distance computation
with no reverse credit on the predicted landing runway.  A MEDIUM TO POOR computation enables
the flight crew to consider extreme situations where a runway reported
wet is worse than wet. If a runway reported wet is water contaminated,
the braking action is a function of the water depth. During active
precipitation or shortly afterwards, the water depth is variable,
and therefore difficult to evaluate and to report accurately.  Therefore on runways reported wet, the
real friction coefficient may be significantly less than expected
and/or aquaplaning may occur. When  REV  IDLE is used, the
maximum possible deceleration of the aircraft mainly depends on the
runway friction coefficient.
Wheel Brakes
Wheel brakes contribute the most to aircraft
deceleration on the ground. Many factors may affect efficient braking
such as load on the wheels, tire pressure, runway pavement characteristics
and runway contamination and braking technique. The only factor over
which the pilot has any control is the use of the correct braking
technique, as discussed below.
Anti-Skid
The anti-skid system adapts pilot applied
brake pressure to runway conditions by sensing an impending skid condition
and adjusting the brake pressure to each individual wheel as required.
The anti-skid system maintains the skidding factor (slip ratio) close
to the maximum friction force point. This will provide the optimum
deceleration with respect to the pilot input. Full pedal braking with
anti-skid provides a deceleration rate of  10 /sec.
Brakes
The use of auto brake versus
pedal braking should observe the following guidelines:
The use of A/BRAKE
is usually preferable because it minimizes the number of brake applications
and thus reduces brake wear. Additionally, the A/BRAKE provides a
symmetrical brake pressure application which ensures an equal braking
effect on both main landing gear wheels on wet or evenly contaminated
runway. More particularly, the A/BRAKE is recommended on short, wet,
contaminated runway, in poor visibility conditions and in Auto land.
The use of  LO  auto brake should be preferred on long and dry runways whereas
the use of MED auto brake should be preferred for short or contaminated
runways. The use of  MAX  auto brake is not recommended.
On very short
runways, the use of pedal braking is to be envisaged since the pilot
may apply full pedal braking with no delay after touch down.
On very long
runways, the use of pedal braking may be envisaged if the pilot anticipates
that braking will not be needed. To reduce brake wear, the number
of brake application should be limited.
In case of pedal
braking, do not ride the brakes but apply pedal braking when required
and modulate the pressure without releasing. This minimizes brake
wear.
The green  DECEL  comes on when the actual deceleration is  80  of the selected rate. For example the  DECEL  might
not appear when the autobrake is selected on a contaminated runway,
because the deceleration rate is not reached with the autobrake properly
functioning. Whereas the  DECEL  might appear with  LO  selected on a dry runway while only the reversers achieve
the selected deceleration rate without autobrake being actually activated.
In other words, the  DECEL  is not an indicator of the
autobrake operation as such, but that the deceleration rate is reached.  Since the auto brake system senses deceleration
and modulates brake pressure accordingly, the timely application of  MAX  reverse thrust will reduce the actual operation of the
brakes themselves, thus the brake wear and temperature.  Auto-brake does not relieve the pilot
of the responsibility of achieving a safe stop within the available
runway length.
Cross Wind Conditions
The reverse thrust side force and crosswind
component can combine to cause the aircraft to drift to the downwind
side of the runway if the aircraft is allowed to weathercock into
wind after landing. Additionally, as the anti-skid system will be
operating at maximum braking effectiveness, the main gear tire cornering
forces available to counteract this drift will be reduced.
Braking Force and Cornering Force vs Antiskid
To correct back to the centreline, the
pilot must reduce reverse thrust to  REV  IDLE and release
the brakes. This will minimise the reverse thrust side force component,
without the requirement to go through a full reverser actuating cycle,
and provide the total tire cornering forces for realignment with the
runway centreline. Rudder and differential braking should be used,
as required, to correct back to the runway centreline. When re-established
on the runway centreline, the pilot should re-apply braking and reverse
thrust as required.  For more
information about rudder pedals recommendations,
Directional Control During Crosswind Landing
Deceleration
Once on the ground, the importance
of the timely use of all means of stopping the aircraft cannot be
overemphasised. Three systems are involved in braking once the aircraft
is on the ground:
The ground spoilers
The thrust reversers
The wheel brakes.
In the
case of ROP alert, the flight crew must immediately apply the associated
operating techniques ( ).
The Ground Spoilers
When the aircraft touches down with at
least one main landing gear and when at least one thrust lever is
in the reverse sector, the ground spoilers partially automatically
deploy to ensure that the aircraft is properly sit down on ground.
Then, the ground spoilers automatically fully deploy. This is the
partial lift dumping function.  The ground
spoilers contribute to aircraft deceleration by increasing aerodynamic
drag at high speed. Wheel braking efficiency is improved due to the
increased load on the wheels. Additionally, the ground spoiler extension
signal is used for auto-brake activation.
Reverse Thrust Efficiency
Thrust reversers are more efficient at
high speeds: The flight crew must select reverse thrust immediately
after main landing gear touchdown.  Below  70 , thrust reversers
efficiency rapidly decreases. Below  60  with  REV
MAX  selected, engine stall may occur. Therefore, it is
recommended to reduce the reverse thrust to  REV  IDLE at  70 , and keep  REV  IDLE until taxi speed. However in an emergency
case, the flight crew must keep  REV
MAX  until
full-stop of the aircraft.  At taxi speed, and not above, stow the
thrust reversers before leaving the runway, in order to avoid foreign
object ingestion.
Reverse Thrust Selection
The selection of  REV
MAX  is the standard practice for landing.
Landing on DRY Runways
On DRY runways, the flight crew may select  REV  IDLE.
Landing on Wet Runways
On WET runways, the flight crew may select  REV  IDLE, if all the conditions  described in the SOP DESCENT
PREPARATION ( ) are satisfied.
Landing on Contaminated Runways
On contaminated runways, the flight crew
must select  REV  MAX.
Reminder on Landing Distance Computation at Dispatch for Dry
and Wet Runways
Definitions
ALD
The Actual Landing Distance is the distance used on a dry runway
from the crossing of the runway threshold at  50  until full-stop
of the aircraft, using maximum manual braking. No reverse thrust is
considered for the calculation of the ALD. The ALD is demonstrated
during flight test campaign for certification purpose.
RLD  dry
The Required Landing Distance
on a dry runway is a factored ALD. The factor is 1.67. ( RLD  dry = ALD x 1.67)
RLD  wet
The Required Landing Distance
on a wet runway is a factored ALD. The factor is 1.92 ( RLD  wet =  RLD  dry x 1.15)
Dispatch Conditions
For landing distance computation at dispatch,
the airline uses the  RLD .  Landing distances computed at dispatch
for wet runways provide only reduced margins in comparison with landing
distances achievable in operations with the use of REV IDLE. Sufficient
margins are restored when the flight crew uses REV MAX.  The runway slope is not considered for
the landing distance computation at dispatch.  On a destination airport with multiple
runways, the landing distance computation at dispatch may be performed
on the longest landing runway with no wind.  The expected landing runway may be used
for the landing distance computation at dispatch with forecast wind
at landing. If the wind condition changes at landing, the flight crew
must perform a new landing distance computation.
Landing with REV IDLE on Wet Runways
The landing distance computation at dispatch
( RLD ) does not consider  REV  IDLE operation.
Therefore, it is necessary to perform a computation to consider  REV  IDLE operation, as described in the SOP DESCENT PREPARATION
( ). This may be done
before the flight.  At descent preparation, if the flight
crew considers the use of  REV  IDLE on a wet runway, they
should be able to confirm a MEDIUM TO POOR landing distance computation
with no reverse credit on the predicted landing runway.  A MEDIUM TO POOR computation enables
the flight crew to consider extreme situations where a runway reported
wet is worse than wet. If a runway reported wet is water contaminated,
the braking action is a function of the water depth. During active
precipitation or shortly afterwards, the water depth is variable,
and therefore difficult to evaluate and to report accurately.  Therefore on runways reported wet, the
real friction coefficient may be significantly less than expected
and/or aquaplaning may occur. When  REV  IDLE is used, the
maximum possible deceleration of the aircraft mainly depends on the
runway friction coefficient.
Wheel Brakes
Wheel brakes contribute the most to aircraft
deceleration on the ground. Many factors may affect efficient braking
such as load on the wheels, tire pressure, runway pavement characteristics
and runway contamination and braking technique. The only factor over
which the pilot has any control is the use of the correct braking
technique, as discussed below.
Anti-Skid
The anti-skid system adapts pilot applied
brake pressure to runway conditions by sensing an impending skid condition
and adjusting the brake pressure to each individual wheel as required.
The anti-skid system maintains the skidding factor (slip ratio) close
to the maximum friction force point. This will provide the optimum
deceleration with respect to the pilot input. Full pedal braking with
anti-skid provides a deceleration rate of  10 /sec.
Brakes
The use of auto brake versus
pedal braking should observe the following guidelines:
The use of A/BRAKE
is usually preferable because it minimizes the number of brake applications
and thus reduces brake wear. Additionally, the A/BRAKE provides a
symmetrical brake pressure application which ensures an equal braking
effect on both main landing gear wheels on wet or evenly contaminated
runway. More particularly, the A/BRAKE is recommended on short, wet,
contaminated runway, in poor visibility conditions and in Auto land.
The use of  LO  auto brake should be preferred on long and dry runways whereas
the use of MED auto brake should be preferred for short or contaminated
runways. The use of  MAX  auto brake is not recommended.
On very short
runways, the use of pedal braking is to be envisaged since the pilot
may apply full pedal braking with no delay after touch down.
On very long
runways, the use of pedal braking may be envisaged if the pilot anticipates
that braking will not be needed. To reduce brake wear, the number
of brake application should be limited.
In case of pedal
braking, do not ride the brakes but apply pedal braking when required
and modulate the pressure without releasing. This minimizes brake
wear.
The green  DECEL  comes on when the actual deceleration is  80  of the selected rate. For example the  DECEL  might
not appear when the autobrake is selected on a contaminated runway,
because the deceleration rate is not reached with the autobrake properly
functioning. Whereas the  DECEL  might appear with  LO  selected on a dry runway while only the reversers achieve
the selected deceleration rate without autobrake being actually activated.
In other words, the  DECEL  is not an indicator of the
autobrake operation as such, but that the deceleration rate is reached.  Since the auto brake system senses deceleration
and modulates brake pressure accordingly, the timely application of  MAX  reverse thrust will reduce the actual operation of the
brakes themselves, thus the brake wear and temperature.  Auto-brake does not relieve the pilot
of the responsibility of achieving a safe stop within the available
runway length.
Cross Wind Conditions
The reverse thrust side force and crosswind
component can combine to cause the aircraft to drift to the downwind
side of the runway if the aircraft is allowed to weathercock into
wind after landing. Additionally, as the anti-skid system will be
operating at maximum braking effectiveness, the main gear tire cornering
forces available to counteract this drift will be reduced.
Braking Force and Cornering Force vs Antiskid
To correct back to the centreline, the
pilot must reduce reverse thrust to  REV  IDLE and release
the brakes. This will minimise the reverse thrust side force component,
without the requirement to go through a full reverser actuating cycle,
and provide the total tire cornering forces for realignment with the
runway centreline. Rudder and differential braking should be used,
as required, to correct back to the runway centreline. When re-established
on the runway centreline, the pilot should re-apply braking and reverse
thrust as required.  For more
information about rudder pedals recommendations,
Directional Control During Crosswind Landing
Tail Strike Avoidance
Although most of tail strikes are due
to deviations from normal landing techniques, some are associated
with external conditions such as turbulence and wind gradient.
DEVIATION FROM NORMAL TECHNIQUES
Deviations from normal landing
techniques are the most common causes of tail strikes. The main reasons
for this are due to:
Allowing the
speed to decrease well below  VAPP  before flare  Flying at too low
speed means high angle of attack and high pitch attitude, thus reducing
ground clearance. When reaching the flare height, the pilot will have
to significantly increase the pitch attitude to reduce the sink rate.
This may cause the pitch to go beyond the critical angle.
Prolonged hold
off for a smooth touch down  As the pitch increases,
the pilot needs to focus further ahead to assess the aircraft's
position in relation to the ground. The attitude and distance relationship
can lead to a pitch attitude increase beyond the critical angle.
Too high flare  A high flare can result
in a combined decrease in airspeed and a long float. Since both lead
to an increase in pitch attitude, the result is reduced tail clearance.
Too high sink
rate, just prior reaching the flare height  In case of too high
sink rate close to the ground, the pilot may attempt to avoid a firm
touch down by commanding a high pitch rate. This action will significantly
increase the pitch attitude and, as the resulting lift increase may
be insufficient to significantly reduce the sink rate, the high pitch
rate may be difficult to control after touch down, particularly in
case of bounce.
Bouncing at
touch down  In case of bouncing
at touch down, the pilot may be tempted to increase the pitch attitude
to ensure a smooth second touch down. If the bounce results from a
firm touch down, associated with high pitch rate, it is important
to control the pitch so that it does not further increase beyond the
critical angle.
AIRCRAFT SYSTEM FOR TAIL STRIKE PREVENTION
The following aircraft systems
help to prevent tail strike occurrence:
A "PITCH-PITCH"
synthetic voice sounds when the pitch attitude becomes excessive,
A tail strike
pitch limit indicator appears on the  PFD  to indicate the
maximum pitch attitude to avoid a tail strike.
The "PITCH-PITCH"
synthetic voice sound takes into account the actual pitch value and
the pitch trend. This can lead to "PITCH-PITCH" synthetic
voice sound to be triggered before any  PM  callout, or before
the pitch reaches a high attitude on the  PFD .  This design
is installed as an option on A320 and A321.
BOUNCING AT TOUCH DOWN
In case of light bounce, maintain
the pitch attitude and complete the landing, while keeping the thrust
at idle. Do not allow the pitch attitude to increase, particularly
following a firm touch down with a high pitch rate.  In case of high bounce, maintain the pitch attitude and initiate
a go-around. Do not try to avoid a second touch down during the go-around.
Should it happen, it would be soft enough to prevent damage to the
aircraft, if pitch attitude is maintained.  Only when safely established in the go-around, retract flaps one
step and the landing gear. A landing should not be attempted immediately
after high bounce, as thrust may be required to soften the second
touch down and the remaining runway length may be insufficient to
stop the aircraft.
CUMULATIVE EFFECTS
No single factor should result
in a tail strike, but accumulation of several can significantly reduce
the margin.
Rollout
NORMAL CONDITIONS
During the roll out, the rudder pedals
will be used to steer the aircraft on the runway centreline. At high
speed, directional control is achieved with rudder. As the speed reduces,
the Nose Wheel Steering becomes active. However, the  NWS  tiller will not be used until taxi speed is reached.
CROSSWIND CONDITIONS
The above-mentioned technique applies.
Additionally, the flight crew will avoid setting side stick into the
wind as it increases the weathercock effect. Indeed, it creates a
differential down force on the wheels into the wind side.  The reversers have a destabilizing effect
on the airflow around the rudder and thus decrease the efficiency
of the rudder. Furthermore they create a side force, in case of a
remaining crab angle, which increases the lateral skidding tendency
of the aircraft. This adverse effect is quite noticeable on contaminated
runways with crosswind. In case a lateral control problem occurs in
high crosswind landing, the pilot will consider to set reversers back
to  REV  IDLE.  At lower
speeds, the directional control of the aircraft is more problematic,
more specifically on wet and contaminated runways. Differential braking
is to be used if necessary. On wet and contaminated runways, the same
braking effect may be reached with full or half deflection of the
pedals; additionally the anti skid system releases the brake pressure
on both sides very early when the pilot presses on the pedals. Thus
if differential braking is to be used, the flight crew will totally
release the pedal on the opposite side to the expected turn direction.  For more information about rudder pedals
recommendations,
Transition to Visual References
When the aircraft transitions
from  IMC  to  VMC , the flight crew should:
Continue to
include the  PFD  in the scan
Initially maintain
pitch and heading
Not eliminate
the drift in the case of crosswind
Not duck under
Maintain a stabilized
flight path down to the flare. At  50 , one dot below
the glide slope is  7  below the glide slope.
If the
flight crew use the bird, they can monitor the bird vs. the aircraft
attitude symbol in the center of the  PFD .
This provides
a good assessment of the drift, and therefore, indicates in which
direction to look for the runway.
Introduction
Introduction
The all engines failure is the situation
where the aircraft entirely or partially loses engine thrust, and
is no longer able to maintain level flight.
The all engines failure
can be identified by the Flight Warning Computer ( FWC )
or by the flight crew:
In most cases,
the  FWC  detects an all engines failure condition and displays
the
ENG  ALL ENGINES FAILURE
ECAM  alert
In some cases,
the  FWC  does not detect the all engines failure condition.
In the case of partial loss of thrust (no engine flame out) on one
or more engines, the residual N2 may remain slightly above the
ENG 1(2)  FAIL
alert threshold.
Even if the
ENG  ALL ENGINES
FAILURE
alert is not triggered, the flight
crew must rapidly decide to apply either the ALL ENG FAIL QRH procedure,
or the EMER LANDING QRH procedure, depending on their assessment of
the situation. If the flight crew considers there is sufficient time
to attempt an engine relight, they must apply the ALL ENG FAIL QRH
procedure. However, if the flight crew considers there is not sufficient
time to attempt an engine relight, they must apply the EMER LANDING
QRH procedure. For more information,  .
Back Course Localizer Approach
Back Course Localizer Approach
Back course localizer ( LOC
B/C ) approach consists in using the  LOC  signal
of the opposite runway for lateral approach management.
LOC
B/C  approach
should be flown using the TRK mode for lateral guidance and the FPA
mode for vertical guidance. The approach is flown using the  ND  in ROSE LS/ILS mode as it shows the correct LEFT/RIGHT information
for the beam deviation.  The preferred technique is the early stabilized approach technique,
using the  AP / FD  and  A/THR .
Approach Preparation
The flight crew should manually
enter the  ILS  in the  MCDU
RAD
NAV  page using:
Either the IDENT
( ILS  stored in the  FMS  database). If  RWY / ILS  MISMATCH message is triggered the flight crew can
disregard it.
Or the frequency
( ILS  not stored in the  FMS  database).
In both cases, the front course
will be entered in the  CRS  field.
Descent (crossing FL100)
The flight crew must
not select  ILS  via the ILS/LS pb: doing so makes the  PFD  show reverse deviations.  The flight crew must
not arm the  LOC  or  APPR  modes.  The flight crew must
not select the  LS  on  ISIS , since
it displays the  LOC  deviations in the wrong sense.
Initial / Intermediate Approach
The flight crew should:
select the  ND  in ROSE ILS/LS mode on the  EFIS  control panel.
The display shows the correct LEFT/RIGHT information for the beam
deviation.
select the  TRK / FPA  flying reference (bird).
When clear
for approach, the crew should intercept manually  LOC
B/C  using the blue  TRK  index with reference with  LOC
B/C  lateral deviation on  ND .
FINAL APPROACH
Approaching the Final Descent Point,
the flight crew will select the  FPA  corresponding to the
final approach path.
Interception of the Final Vertical Leg
Interception of the Final Vertical Leg
The Final Path Angle ( FPA )
should be preset on the  FCU
1  prior to the
published  FDP  at the latest. A smooth interception of the
final approach path can be achieved by pulling the  FPA  selector  0.3  prior to the published  FDP .
The vertical
trajectory should be monitored with altitude/distance raw data.
General
General
This section deals with flying an approach with the  FPA  guidance.  The lateral guidance may be either managed
or selected and the vertical guidance is  FPA .  The use of  AP  is recommended for all approaches using  FPA  guidance as it reduces crew workload and facilitates monitoring
the procedure and flight path.  The following
sections list some particularities of these approaches.
Interception of the Final Approach Course
Interception of the Final Approach Course
When cleared for final approach course interception:
If  NAV  ACCURACY HIGH:
NAV  mode can be used. Under
radar vectoring, the crew should use the DIR TO  FDP  with
RADIAL INBD facility.
If  NAV  ACCURACY LOW:
Select appropriate  TRK  on  FCU , in order to
establish final course tracking with reference to navaid raw data.
When established on the final course, the selected track compensates
for drift.
The final approach course interception should be monitored through
applicable raw data ( ADF ,  VOR ,  LOC ).
ADIRS Alignment
During taxi, a good way to check a global
consistency of  FMGC  entries (position and flight plan)
is to check the runway and the  SID  on the  ND  in comparison to the aircraft symbol, that indicates the current
aircraft position. To do so, set the  ND  in ARC or  NAV  mode with a range  10 .
Closest Airport
Closest Airport
For diversion purpose, the crew
can also use the CLOSEST AIRPORT page which provides valuable fuel/time
estimates to the four closest airports from the aircraft position,
as well as to an airport the crew may define. The fuel and time predictions
are a function of the average wind between the aircraft and the airport.
ETP
ETP
ETP  function should
be used to assist the crew in making a decision should an en-route
diversion be required. Suitable airport pairs should be entered on
the  ETP  page and the  FMS  will then calculate
the  ETP . Each time an  ETP  is sequenced, the
crew should insert the next suitable diversion airfield.
The  SEC
F-PLN  is a useful tool and should be used practically. The  ETP  should be inserted in the  SEC
F-PLN  as a  PD  (Place/Distance) and the route to diversion airfield should
be finalized. By programming a potential en-route diversion, the crew
would reduce their workload should a failure occur. This is particularly
true when terrain considerations apply to the intended diversion route.
When an  ETP  is sequenced, the crew will:
Access the  ETP  page
Insert the next
applicable diversion airfield with associated wind
Read new  ETP
Insert new  ETP  as a  PD
Copy active
on the  SEC
F-PLN
Insert the new
diversion as New Dest in the  SEC
F-PLN  from
new  ETP .
The DATA/Stored Routes function in the  MCDU  can be used
to store up to five possible diversion routes. These routes can be
entered into the  SEC
F-PLN  using the  SEC
INIT  prompt. This prompt will only be available if the  SEC
F-PLN  is deleted.
for further information.
Miscellaneous
Miscellaneous
If  ATC  requires a position
report, the crew will use the REPORT page which can be accessed from  PROG  page.  If  ATC  requires a report on a given radial, the crew will use
the FIX  INFO  page or RADIAL FIX INFO page which can be
accessed from a lateral revision on  F-PLN  page at  PPOS .  If  ATC  requires a report at
a given time, the crew will insert a time marker pseudo waypoint.  If  ATC  gives a  DIR TO  clearance to a waypoint far from present position, the crew will
use the ABEAM facility. This facility allows both a better crew orientation
and the previously entered winds to be still considered.
Wind and Temperature
WIND AND TEMPERATURE
When reaching cruise  FL , the
crew will ensure that the wind and temperatures are correctly entered
and the lateral and vertical  F-PLN  reflect the  CFP . Wind entries should be made at waypoints when there is a difference
of either  30  or  30  for the wind data and  5  for temperature deviation. This will ensure
that the  FMS  fuel and time predictions are as accurate
as possible.
Cruise FL
CRUISE  FL
If the aircraft is cleared to
a lower cruise flight level than the pre-planned cruise flight level
displayed on  MCDU  PROG page, the cruise Mach number will
not be targeted. The crew will update the  MCDU  PROG page
accordingly.  When at cruise  FL , the  AP  altitude control is soft. This means that the  AP  will allow small altitude variation around the cruise altitude
(typically ±  50 ) to keep cruise Mach before a readjustment
of thrust occurs. This optimizes the fuel consumption in cruise.
Takeoff following RTO
Takeoff following  RTO
Depending on the technical condition
of the aircraft and the reason for the  RTO  (e.g.  ATC  instruction), the flight crew may consider a new takeoff attempt
subsequent to the  RTO .
In this case, the flight crew
should:
Reset both  FD s and set  FCU
Restart Standard
Operating Procedures from the AFTER START checklist and perform the
DEPARTURE CHANGE  SOP  including the associated checklist.
Preliminary Cockpit Preparation
APU
The flight crew may delay, for as long
as possible, the  APU  start, and use the ground electrical
unit and ground pneumatic unit when available.
AIR CONDITIONING
If one pack is sufficient to supply air
when on ground, the flight crew can set one  PACK  to OFF.  In such a case, the flight crew
should switch between the packs on each flight, in order to prevent
excessive wear of one pack.
Climb
ECON SPEED
Unless restricted by the  ATC , the flight crew should use managed speed during climb,
in order to fly at the optimum  ECON  speed.
ACCELERATION BELOW  10000
By default, the  FMS  flight plan takes into account the  250  speed limitation
below  10000 . If the  ATC  permits, the flight
crew can remove this limitation, in order to accelerate and save fuel.
Cruise
OPTIMUM FLIGHT LEVEL (OPT FL)
During cruise, the  OPT
FL  increases while the aircraft weight decreases.  The flight crew should monitor the  OPT
FL ,
and fly at the most appropriate flight level for optimum aircraft
performance and fuel consumption.  For additional information,  .
WIND UPDATE
The flight crew should insert
accurate and up-to-date wind information in the  FMS , in
order to optimize respectively:
Fuel predictions
Determination
of  OPT
FL .
The flight crew should update
wind information when the change is more than:
30  in direction, or
30  in speed.
For additional
information,  .
MANAGED SPEED
The flight crew should use managed
speed mode, in order to:
Fly at  ECON  speed
Optimize speed
in accordance with the  CI  and flight conditions of the
day.  The flight crew should
not modify the  CI  in flight.
For additional
information,  .
Descent
MANAGED SPEED
The flight crew should use managed
speed mode, in order to:
Fly at  ECON  speed
Optimize speed
in accordance with the  CI  and flight conditions of the
day.
Holding
FLAPS CONFIGURATION
Clean configuration is the optimum
configuration for a holding circuit.  When required (holding pattern or speed limitation), the flight crew
may consider the selection of  CONF  1.
OPTIMUM SPEED
In clean configuration, the
flight crew should fly at Green Dot speed, in order to optimize the
Lift-to-Drag ratio.
Approach
DECELERATION
When conditions and  ATC  permit,
a decelerated approach reduces fuel consumption.  When the approach type does not enable
to fly a decelerated approach, the flight crew should fly an early-stabilized
approach.
FLAPS CONFIGURATION
When landing performance permits,
the selection of  CONF  3 reduces both the approach time
and fuel consumption.
Volcanic Ash Encounter
Avoid flight into areas of known
volcanic activity.  If a volcanic eruption is reported
while the aircraft is in flight, reroute the flight to remain well
clear of the affected area (volcanic dust may spread over several
hundred miles). If possible, stay on the upwind side of the volcano
(at least  20  upwind of it if it is erupting).
In hours of darkness or in meteorological
conditions that obscure volcanic dust, one or several of the following
phenomena indicate that the aircraft may be flying into ash cloud:
smoke or dust
in the cockpit,
acrid odor similar
to electrical smoke,
at night, the
appearance of St. Elmo’s fire and static discharges around the windshield,
bright white
or orange glow appearing in the engine inlets,
sharp, distinct
beams from the landing lights,
multiple engine
malfunctions, such as rising  EGT , decreasing power, stall,
or flame out.
REPORTING
Whenever operating
in areas affected by volcanic activity, flight crews should be aware
of volcanic reporting procedures and be familiar with the use of the
ICAO Special Air Report of Volcanic Activity (Model VAR).
If the aircraft
encounters a volcanic ash cloud, the flight crew should report the
location, altitude, and direction of drift for the ash cloud to  ATC , flight conditions and crew duties permitting.
Definition of Upset
Definition of Upset
An aircraft upset is an undesired aircraft
state characterized by unintentional divergences from parameters normally
experienced during operations. An aircraft upset may involve pitch
and/or bank angle divergences and may lead to inappropriate airspeeds
for the conditions.  An upset
condition exists any time an aircraft diverges from what the flight
crew is intending to do. Deviations from the desired aircraft state
will become larger until the flight crew takes action to stop the
divergence. Return to the desired aircraft state can be achieved through
natural aircraft reaction to accelerations, auto-flight system response
or flight crew intervention.
Upset Prevention
Upset Prevention
The prevention of an upset situation
is possible thanks to an effective monitoring of:
The environment
(turbulences, icing conditions, weather)
The aircraft
energy state
The aircraft
flight path
The aircraft
technical state (Flight controls laws, systems failure).
All flight crew members are
responsible of the monitoring to ensure that the aircraft state is
understood and correct for the situation.
Each flight crew member should:
Know and understand
the expected aircraft state for the situation
Communicate
expectations
Keep track of
current aircraft state
Detect and communicate
deviations from the intended situation
Assess risk
and decide on a response
Update and communicate
understanding.
An efficient
monitoring and effective coordination and communication are keys to
prevent upset situations. As such, the flight crew should be able
to assess the energy, to stop any flight path divergence, and to recover
a stabilized flight path before the upset situation.
Recovery Techniques
Recovery Techniques
The flight crew must be or become aware of the upset situation, i.e.
recognize and confirm the situation before they take appropriate actions.
Communication
Communication between crew members will
assist in the recognition of the upset situation and recovery actions.
At the first indication of a flight path divergence, the first pilot
who observes the divergence must announce it with the callout "NOSE
HIGH" or "NOSE LOW", depending on the situation. The
flight crew must use the flight instruments as primary means to analyze
the upset situation.  To avoid
dual inputs, the flight crew must know at all times who has control.
If the  PM  requires to take control following the upset
situation, the  PM  must apply the takeover technique as
per Airbus operational philosophy.  .
Situation analysis
The situation analysis process
is to:
Assess the energy
(airspeed, altitude, attitude, load factor, thrust setting, position
of drag and high-lift devices and the rate of change of those conditions)
Determine the
aircraft attitude (pitch and bank angle)
Communicate
with other crew member(s)
Confirm attitude
by reference to other indicators:
For a nose low
upset, normally, the airspeed is increasing, altitude is decreasing
and the  VSI  indicates a descent
For a nose high
upset, normally, the airspeed is decreasing, altitude is increasing
and the  VSI  indicates a climb.
A stalled
condition can exist in any attitude and could be recognized by stall
buffet and/or stall aural alert. If the aircraft is stalled, apply
the stall recovery procedure.  .
References for recovery
The  PFD  is a primary reference
for recovery.  Pitch attitude is determined from the  PFD  pitch reference
scale. Even in extreme attitudes, some portion of the sky or ground
indications is present to assist the pilot in analyzing the situation.
The bank indicator on the  PFD  should be used to determine
the aircraft bank.  Other
attitude sources should be checked: Standby Attitude Indications,
the  PM  instruments, or references outside the cockpit when
possible.
Actions for recovery
An overview of actions
to take to recover from an upset would gather three basic activities:
Assess the energy
(become situationally aware)
Stop the flight
path divergence
Recover to a
stabilized flight path.
The Nose
high/Nose low techniques represent a logical progression for recovering
the aircraft. They are not necessarily procedural. The sequence of
actions is for guidance only and represents a series of options for
the pilot to consider and to use depending on the situation.  The flight crew may apply these actions
or part of these actions, mainly if the recovery is effective.  Depending on the situation, the  PF  should apply the required actions (See figures "Nose
High" and "Nose Low").  During the maneuver, the  PM  must monitor the airspeed and the attitude throughout the recovery.
The  PM  must also announce the flight path divergence if
the recovery maneuver is not efficient.
Nose High Actions
Notes:
(1)
If the  AP  and  A/THR  responses enable to stop the flight
path divergence, the flight crew may keep the  AP  and  A/THR  engaged.
(2)
The flight crew must
apply as much nose down pitch order as required to obtain a nose down
pitch rate.  In the
case of lack of pitch down authority, the flight crew may use incremental
inputs on the trim (nose down) to improve the effectiveness of the
elevator control.
(3)
Select up to maximum
thrust available while ensuring adequate pitch control. Increasing
thrust may reduce the effectiveness of nose-down pitch control. It
may be necessary to limit or reduce thrust to the point where control
of the pitch is achieved.
(4)
The bank angle must not exceed  60 .  If all normal pitch
control techniques are unsuccessful, the flight crew can keep the
current bank angle or bank the aircraft to enable the nose to drop
toward the horizon.  The bank angle should
be the least possible to start the nose down and never exceed approximately  60 . If the bank angle is already greater than  60 , the flight
crew should reduce it to an amount less than  60 .
(5)
Recover the level flight at a sufficient airspeed while avoiding
a stall due to premature recovery at low speed, or excessive g-loading
at high speed.
Nose Low Actions
Notes:
(1)
If the  AP  and  A/THR  responses enable to stop the flight
path divergence, the flight crew may keep the  AP  and  A/THR  engaged.
(2)
Even in a nose low
situation, the aircraft may be stalled and it would be necessary to
recover from a stall first.
(3)
In general, a nose low with high-angle-of-bank requires prompt action,
because the decreasing altitude is rapidly being exchanged for an
increasing airspeed. It may be necessary to reduce the g-loading to
improve roll effectiveness.
(4)
The flight crew
should reduce the thrust and/or use the speedbrakes to control the
speed.
(5)
Recover the level flight at a sufficient airspeed while avoiding
a stall due to premature recovery at low speed, or excessive g-loading
at high speed.
Landing
CONF  FULL, or  CONF  3, can be used.
However,  CONF  3 provides more energy and less drag.
Spurious Caution
Any spurious caution can be deleted with
the  EMER CANC  . When pressed, the  EMER CANC  deletes
both the aural alert, and the caution for the remainder of the flight.
 This is indicated on the STATUS page, by the "CANCELLED CAUTION"
title.
The  EMER CANCEL  inhibits
any aural warning that is associated with a red warning, but does
not affect the warning itself.
Brakes Oxidation
Two different factors affect
the life of carbon brakes:
The wear of
the disks
The oxidation
of the disks.
The oxidation
may degrade rapidly the carbon brakes and may cause the rupture of
a brake disk.  The main cause of oxidation is the repetitive high temperature of
the brakes (particularly above  400 ).
Therefore, the flight crew should preferably use autobrake  LO  when performance permits.
Technical Background
TECHNICAL BACKGROUND
An all engines failure situation
mainly results in an emergency electrical configuration ( ), and in the loss of the green
and yellow hydraulic systems.
ELECTRICAL CONFIGURATION
In the case of an all engines
failure:
All the  AC  busbars are lost
The  RAT  automatically deploys to supply the emergency generator ( EMER
GEN  or  CSM/G ). The  EMER GEN  supplies both
the  AC
ESS  and the  DC
ESS  bus bars.
The  AC
ESS  SHED bus bar and  DC
ESS  SHED bus bar are:
Supplied by
the  CSM/G
Shed, when the
aircraft is supplied only by batteries.
The emergency generator can
supply all the electrical loads that are necessary for the remainder
of the flight. The  EMER GEN , that is connected to the network,
remains connected even if all the main generators are recovered (following
engines relight), or if the  APU  generator is connected.  Below FL 250, if the flight crew can start the  APU , the
normal electrical configuration partly recovers.
APU START
If fuel remains, the flight
crew should attempt an  APU  start regardless of the  RAT  type in order to recover cabin pressurization, additional
electrical power and have bleed available for a starter-assisted relight,
if necessary.
APU  start attempts
use the aircraft batteries and reduce batteries load (each  APU  start attempt reduces flight time on batteries by about 3 and a
half minutes). Total flight time on batteries is more than  30 .
HYDRAULIC GENERATION
The green and yellow hydraulic
systems are lost. The RAT automatically deploys to pressurize the
blue hydraulic system.  When the hydraulic power is
lost, the right aileron is lost and goes to its zero hinge moment
position. There is enough authority to balance this roll, but instead
of flying with permanent stick deflection in roll, the  PF  may use the rudder trim to generate sideslip and therefore compensate
for this upfloating aileron. When the  APU  generator is
connected, the control of the right aileron is restored due to the
recovery of  ELAC  2.  As hydraulic power is only available
from the  RAT , the  PF  should avoid large and
rapid rudder deflections.  If engine windmilling is sufficient,
additional hydraulic power may be recovered.
General Philosophy
General Philosophy
GENERAL PHILOSOPHY
Following an all engines failure,
the cockpit indications change significantly, because the generators
disconnect from the  AC  and  DC  bus bars:
AP ,  FD , and  A/THR  are lost
Aircraft operates
in alternate law
CM2
PFD  and  CM2
ND  are lost.
When the
flight crew detects an all engines failure condition, they must apply
the golden rule #1 ( Fly, Navigate, Communicate
: In this order and with the appropriate tasksharing ). CM1
(left-hand seat pilot) is the  PF  since only  PFD 1 is available. CM1 must immediately take over control of the aircraft,
and must establish a safe flight path.
After the  PF  establishes a
safe flight path, the  PM  should perform the  ECAM  actions. The  EWD  remains available. The  PM  ( CM2  side) can display the  SD  pages on  EWD  by pressing and holding the associated system page pushbutton
on the  ECP .  The
ENG  ALL ENGINES FAILURE
alert provides the first
key steps of the procedure and then directs the flight crew to the
[QRH] ALL ENG FAIL procedure.  Due to
the advantages of the Windmill relight (available for a large altitude
range, simultaneous relight attempts on all engines, relight attempts
not dependent on the technical condition of the aircraft systems)
compared to the starter-assisted relight (using the  APU  bleed), the [QRH] ALL ENG FAIL procedure promotes the Windmill relight
for all altitudes of the certified relight envelope.  As a result, the optimum speed for Windmill engine relight is displayed
on the  ECAM  when the
ENG  ALL ENGINES FAILURE
alert triggers. This optimum relight speed depends on
the engine type and enables an immediate Windmill relight without
an excessive aircraft descent rate within the whole Windmill relight
envelope.
Depending on the circumstances,
in order to reach the optimum relight speed, the flight crew may increase
the speed during descent. However, the flight crew should keep in
mind that, in alternate law, the overspeed protection is lost and
that the aircraft speed and Mach upper limits are reduced.  If the all engines failure is subsequent to a flight through volcanic
ashes, the situation may be associated to unreliable speed indications.
Therefore, the QRH procedure includes complementary information compared
to the  ECAM  and provides the pitch attitude that the  PF  must maintain to target the optimum relight speed.  The flight crew must set the thrust levers to the Idle detent in
order to avoid any thrust power surge when the engine relights.  The gliding distance displayed on the  ECAM  enables to
roughly estimate the aircraft range as a function of the aircraft
altitude at the optimum relight speed without wind. As a result, the
flight crew should be able to rapidly assess the situation and determine
their landing strategy if the engines do not relight. However, this
gliding distance figure is an envelope value. As a result, depending
on actual parameters, the actual gliding distance may differ. After
their range assessment, the  PF  should then initiate the
diversion to an accessible runway, or determine the most appropriate
area for a forced landing or ditching.  When time permits, the flight crew must transmit an emergency message
to  ATC  using  VHF 1. Depending on the exact situation,
assistance may be available from  ATC  (e.g. position of
other aircraft, safe direction, closest airport, etc…).  Different
causes may lead to a thrust loss so that altitude cannot be maintained.
However, fuel starvation is one of the most probable cause. As a result,
the [QRH] ALL ENG FAIL procedure requests the flight crew to check
the on-board fuel quantity in order to ensure that the aircraft is
not experiencing a fuel starvation issue that will prevent engines
relight. Then, depending on the flight crew assessment of the situation,
they must determine whether engines relights can be attempted, or
not. The [QRH] ALL ENG FAIL procedure addresses all situations and
provides all necessary procedure steps until the touchdown if the
engines do not relight. As a consequence, the QRH procedure includes
the ditching or the forced landing procedures adapted to the all engines
failure situation.
If Engine relight can be attempted
If the flight crew attempts
an engine relight, the [QRH] ALL ENG FAIL procedure provides all the
necessary information and conditions to perform a successful engine
relight.
Windmill Relight
In windmill, the flight crew
tries to relight both engines at the same time.
The engine master levers must be set
to OFF for  30 , in order to ventilate
the combustion chamber of the engine between two relight attempts.
If the combustion chamber is
not ventilated, the following may occur:
Engine stall,
or
Engine tailpipe
fire, or
Not successful
engine relight.
After the flight crew sets both
master levers to ON, they must monitor the N2 and the EGT parameters,
to check if the relight is successful. If the first relight attempt
is not successful, the flight crew should repeat the windmill relight
on all engines.
Starter Assisted Relight
However, below FL 200, the flight
crew can attempt a starter assisted relight of one engine at a time,
if:
None of the
engines relight after windmill relight attempts, and
The  APU  bleed air is available.
When the  APU  bleed is used, the flight crew must fly at a speed below
the optimum windmill speed, to enable a starter assisted relight of
the engines. The flight crew reduces speed to the Green Dot speed,
to minimize the descent rate of the aircraft. The Green Dot speed
with all engines inoperative is displayed on the  CM1
PFD . However, the procedure [QRH] ALL ENG FAIL provides a table
of Green Dot speed with all engines inoperative, depending on the
weight and altitude of the aircraft.
When the  APU  bleed
is used, the flight crew should only attempt to relight one engine
at a time.
The  APU  cannot provide sufficient bleed to relight two engines at the same
time. Therefore, during the sequence of a starter assisted relight,
both master levers must NOT be in the ON position at the same time.
The flight crew only sets one
master lever to ON. Then, they must monitor the N2 and the EGT parameters,
during at least  30 .
30  is the minimum time required to determine if an engine
relight may be successful or not.  It is also the time that is required
for the ventilation of the combustion chamber of the engine, with
the master lever OFF.
After at least 30 s:
As long as the
N2 and the  EGT continuously increase, and the engine parameters reach
idle values but do not exceed the limits, the flight crew should not
abort the relight attempt. Depending on the engine state and on the
environmental conditions, the in-flight engine relight may require
more time, when compared with an engine start on the ground.
If there are
no signs of relight, the relight is considered not successful. The
flight crew must set the associated master lever to OFF, and try to
relight one engine at a time regularly:
To relight the opposite engine , the flight crew may immediately
apply the sequence for “ENGINE RELIGHT (one at a time)”, because the
opposite engine is already ventilated.
To relight the same engine , the flight crew must wait  30  before they apply the sequence for “ENGINE RELIGHT (one
at a time)”, to enable the ventilation of the engine.
If Engine relight cannot be attempted
If the flight crew considers that they
cannot attempt engines relights (e.g. engine damage, fuel starvation),
they should apply directly the applicable section of the [QRH] ALL
ENG FAIL procedure. This section requires flying at green dot speed,
that is the best lift-to-drag ratio speed in order to maximize the
remaining time for cabin preparation and distance flown. This section
of the [QRH] ALL ENG FAIL procedure provides a table of Green Dot
speed with all engines inoperative as a function of the aircraft weight
and altitude. If fuel remains, the flight crew should start the  APU  below FL 250 to improve electrical power supply and recover  CM 2 display units. The flight crew should also use  APU  bleed below FL 200 to recover the cabin pressurization.
Approach and landing
When conditions permit, the
flight crew should continue engine relights attempts using the  APU  bleed.  If no engine relights and depending
on the situation, the flight crew should prepare the aircraft either
for a ditching, or for a forced landing, even if a runway can be reached.
Ditching and forced landing procedures are very similar, except for
the landing gear that must be up for a ditching.  The flight crew should pay attention to the time to manage the QRH
procedure. An efficient procedure application is important to fully
configure the aircraft for the ditching or the forced landing. Some
items at the end of the procedure are time consuming (e.g. slats extension).  The flight crew must notify the cabin crew of a forced landing or
ditching, in order to prepare the cabin. For approach, only slats
are available.
FORCED LANDING
If the flight crew expects a
forced landing, they must extend the landing gear to absorb some energy
at touchdown, even if the landing is planned out of a runway. The
landing gear must be extended by gravity.  Since the trajectory is significantly modified when the aircraft
is configured for landing (due to slat/flap and landing gear extension),
the descent slope is provided at the beginning of the “Forced landing”
section of the procedure to help flight crew anticipate this modification.  For the  PF , during the initial and final approach, the
main concern is the aircraft energy management.
The  PF  should maintain aircraft path higher than in a
normal approach because there is no engine to manage energy.  If the
aircraft is too high to reach the landing area, the  PF  may
use the remaining speed brakes to generate drag and increase the descent
rate, if needed.  When the flight crew selects
a runway, they may perform a visual approach, if possible.  When on
ground, the flight crew can use the brake pedals. The brake accumulator
provides the hydraulic power to the brakes, but the number of brake
applications is limited. As the  A-SKID  is not available,
the brake pressure should be limited to  1000 . As the nose
wheel steering is lost, the  PF  must use the rudder at high
speed in order to maintain the runway axis, if applicable. At lower
speeds, the  PF  may use differential braking to maintain
the selected axis but avoid brake release for accumulator endurance
purpose.
DITCHING
Just before ditching, the flight
crew must set the  DITCHING  to ON in order to close all valves
under the aircraft.  Then, the flight crew must touchdown
with a minimum aircraft vertical speed. The flight crew should maintain
the optimum pitch flare until the impact on the water, and should
keep the wings level.
RELIGHT OF ONE ENGINE
When at least one engine relights,
the
ENG  ALL ENGINES FAILURE
alert disappears
and the
ENG  1(2) FAIL
alert is triggered on
the  E/WD  for the remaining engines.
The
ENG  1(2) FAIL
procedure requests to consider the application of the
[QRH] ENG RELIGHT [In Flight] procedure.  The [QRH] ENG RELIGHT [In Flight] procedure
enables to attempt either a windmilling start, or a starter assisted
engine relight with the bleed of the other engine.  The flight crew can decide at any time
to stop the [QRH] ENG RELIGHT [In Flight] procedure, if the situation
requires (e.g. remaining time and distance to fly), and to continue
with other  ECAM  alerts or QRH procedures, if any.  When at least one engine is
recovered,  AC  1,  DC  1,  AC  2 and  DC  2 are recovered and normal electrical configuration is restored
except, that  AC
ESS  BUS bar and  DC
ESS  BUS bars remain supplied by the emergency generator.
When at least one engine is
recovered, green, yellow and blue hydraulic systems are restored:
Green and yellow
systems due to the engine and associated  EDP  recovery,
and the other hydraulic system by means of the  PTU  operation
Blue hydraulic
system is recovered as the electrical supply of the blue electric
pump is restored.
General
General
The  ROPS  is designed to alert
the flight crew in the case of potential runway overrun situation
for dry and wet runway. The  ROPS  is composed of two functions:
The  ROW  function. It automatically arms at  400
AGL  and works until start of braking,
The  ROP  function. It works from start of braking until the aircraft stops.
The absence of  ROW  alert during approach should not prevent the flight crew from closely
monitoring the stabilized approach criteria and from performing a
go around if necessary.  In the case of a failure that
affects landing performance and/or thrust reversers availability,  ROPS  does not prevent runway excursion. Nevertheless, in the
case of  ROPS  alert, the flight crew immediately shall apply  ROPS  procedures.
Reaching Minima
Reaching Minima
The applicable minima are those
associated with the approach chart.
When the aircraft reaches the minima, the  PM  either monitors
or announces “MINIMUM”.
The current altitude value becomes
amber.
If the appropriate visual conditions are met at minima:
The flight crew can visually continue the approach.
Below minima:
When the FINAL APP mode is used for approach, the FDs provide lateral
and vertical managed guidance down to the MAP. The flight crew can
keep the AP/FD engaged below minima.
Keeping the AP/FD below minima
when visual references are acquired is highly valuable in the following
conditions:
High minima
above ground level
Marginal weather
conditions.
However, the guidance may not
be relevant especially in the following cases:
MAP  not at the  RWY  threshold and final segment not aligned
with the runway track (final segment does not cross the  RWY  threshold)
Strong offset
between final segment and runway track.
In such cases the AP/FD should be switched
off. The flight crew may use  TRK
FPA  (bird)
flying reference and adjust the  RWY
TRK  as required.
At the  MAP  or Minimum Use Height of the  AP :
The  FMS  invalidates the vertical profile at the  MAP . The FDs revert from FINAL APP to HDG V/S mode and the  AP  automatically disconnects.  Thus, the flight crew must disconnect
the  AP  no later than the  MAP  or the Minimum
Use Height of  AP , whichever occurs first (  for the Minimum Use Height
of  AP ).
Switching OFF FDs and use of Bird after the MAP is at pilot discretion.
Below minima,
the visual references must be the primary references until landing.
From minima
down to the  MAP  the  FD  provides an additional
guidance. The  FD  must be switched off if the guidance is
not relevant or not followed.
After the  MAP , disregard the  FD  as it reverts to HDG V/S.
If the appropriate visual conditions are not met at minima:
The flight crew must initiate a missed approach.
Reaching Minima
Reaching Minima
The applicable minima are those
associated with the approach chart.
When the aircraft reaches the minima, the  PM  either monitors
or announces “MINIMUM”.
The current altitude value becomes
amber.
If the appropriate visual conditions are met at minima:
The flight crew can visually continue the approach.
Below minima:
When the FINAL APP mode is used for approach, the FDs provide lateral
and vertical managed guidance down to the MAP. The flight crew can
keep the AP/FD engaged below minima.
Keeping the AP/FD below minima
when visual references are acquired is highly valuable in the following
conditions:
High minima
above ground level
Marginal weather
conditions.
However, the guidance may not
be relevant especially in the following cases:
MAP  not at the  RWY  threshold and final segment not aligned
with the runway track (final segment does not cross the  RWY  threshold)
Strong offset
between final segment and runway track.
In such cases the AP/FD should be switched
off. The flight crew may use  TRK
FPA  (bird)
flying reference and adjust  RWY
TRK  as required.
At the  MAP  or Minimum Use Height of the  AP :
The  FMS  invalidates the vertical profile at the  MAP . The FDs revert from FINAL APP to HDG V/S mode.  Thus, the flight crew must disconnect
the  AP  no later than the  MAP  or the Minimum
Use Height of  AP , whichever occurs first (  for the Minimum Use Height
of  AP ).
Switching OFF FDs and use of Bird after the MAP is at pilot discretion.
Below minima,
the visual references must be the primary references until landing.
From minima
down to the  MAP  the  FD  provides an additional
guidance. The  FD  must be switched off if the guidance is
not relevant or not followed.
After the  MAP , disregard the  FD  as it reverts to HDG V/S.
If the appropriate visual conditions are not met at minima:
The flight crew must initiate a missed approach.
Reaching Minima
Reaching Minima
When approaching minima, the pilot flying
should expand the instrument scan to include outside visual cues.  If the required visual conditions are
not met at minima, or are lost below minima, a missed approach must
be initiated.
General
General
The primary objective of a touch and
go is to practice approach and landing. Touch and go are not intended
for neither landing roll nor takeoff procedure training.
Except for the items detailed hereafter,
the flight crew must apply the  SOP s and standard tasksharing
when they perform a touch and go. On repetitive patterns without significant
change, the instructor can decide to adapt the Acceleration Flow Pattern
and Approach checklist.
The flight crew should pay attention
to the following remarks when they perform a touch and go:
The decision
speed ( V1 ) does not apply to touch and go. The  PFD  does not display  V1  during the roll phase of a touch
and go. Therefore, the flight crew should be go-minded.
If the instructor
wants to abandon the touch and go, the instructor calls “STOP – I
HAVE CONTROL". Simultaneously the instructor takes control and
stops the aircraft, with the use of maximum braking and reverse. When
the aircraft stops, the instructor calls for any applicable  ECAM  actions. The decision to discontinue a touch and go after the application
of  TOGA  must only be taken if the instructor is sure that
the aircraft cannot safely fly.
If the trainee
selects reverse thrust, the flight crew must perform a full-stop landing.
In order to
better manage the aircraft energy, the flight crew can reduce the
thrust reduction altitude in the  FMS
PERF
GA  page. The minimum value is the runway elevation plus  400 .
If any
failure occurs during the touch and go training, the flight crew must
first perform the  ECAM / QRH / OEB  actions.
Then, during the decision process, the instructor should consider  MEL  for assessment of the training continuation. For the determination
of the  MEL  repair interval, consider each "touch and
go" or "stop and go" as one flight.
During Final Approach
During Final Approach
Before each touch and go, the
instructor confirms with the trainee that both of the following apply:
Reverse thrust
will not be selected
Brakes (auto
or manual) will not be used.
During Touch and Go
During Touch and Go
Trainee
Instructor
Perform usual
flare and landing technique
Maintain the
runway centerline.
Disarm the ground
spoilers
Order “STAND
UP".
Move forward the thrust
levers approximately  5  ( 2 ), in order to prevent the reduction of engines to ground idle.
Set flaps configuration
for takeoff
If necessary,
reset the rudder trim
Monitor the
pitch trim movement towards the green band
Place one hand
behind the thrust levers to ensure that they are advanced to approximately  5  ( 2 )
Order “GO"
when the aircraft is in the correct configuration (pitch trim, rudder
trim and flaps).
Set  TOGA  thrust.
Remove the hand from
the thrust levers.
Check engine
parameters and announce “THRUST SET"
Order “ROTATE"
at  VAPP
Maintain the
hand behind the thrust levers to ensure that the trainee does not
perform an inadvertent reduction of thrust or unwanted stop.
Rotate the aircraft
and target takeoff pitch attitude, then follow  SRS .
When  LVR
CLB  flashes on the  FMA , reduce thrust from  TOGA  to CL.
At nosewheel touchdown, the
instructor pushes on the  SPEED BRAKE  to disarm the
ground spoilers. The objective is to initiate the immediate retraction
of the ground spoilers, and not to wait for their automatic retraction
while the thrust levers are advanced.  Carefully disarm the
ground spoilers, so that the  SPEED BRAKE  is in the
RET position. If the  SPEED BRAKE  is not in the fully-retracted
position, the  SPEED BRAKE  will possibly command speed
brakes extension. When thrust levers are set above CL detent, the
CONFIG  SPEED BRAKES NOT RETRACTED
alert triggers
and the ground spoilers automatically retract.
Flap settings are as follows:
Landing configuration:
CONF FULL
Takeoff configuration:
CONF 2.
Visual Pattern
Visual Pattern
General
General
The primary objective of a stop
and go is to practice:
Approach and
landing
Roll out and
runway vacation
Taxi and takeoff.
Except
for the items detailed hereafter, the flight crew must apply the  SOP s and standard tasksharing when they perform a stop and
go.
The flight
crew should taxi the aircraft to the runway threshold for the next
takeoff.
When the Runway is Vacated
When the Runway is Vacated
PF
PM
Disarm ground spoilers.
Set the  FLAPS  to 0.
Before Next Takeoff
Before next takeoff
Before the next takeoff, the
flight crew should perform all of the following actions:
Consider  MEL  (if applicable). To determine the  MEL  repair
interval, consider each “touch and go” or “stop and go” as one flight.
Set  FMS :
Set  INIT  data
Set  ZFW  &  ZFW
CG  data
Set  F-PLN  data
Set TAKEOFF
data.
Set  FCU  and reset  FD s
Set Takeoff
configuration:
Arm Ground Spoilers
Set Flaps
Set/check rudder
and pitch trims
Set MAX Autobrake
mode.
Perform  T.O  CONFIG test
Perform AFTER
START checklist
Perform TAXI
checklist
Request  ATC  clearance
Perform departure
briefing
Perform DEPARTURE
CHANGE checklist
Perform LINE-UP
checklist.
Before Line Up
Before Line Up
PF
PM
Check brake temperature.
Check brake temperature
.
In order to limit the brake
temperature, the flight crew should select the appropriate exit after
landing. If performance permits, the instructor can decide to keep
the landing gear down after takeoff for brake cooling.
Ice Crystals
General
Clouds are made of particles of water
that can be either liquid or solid. Ice crystals are very small solid
water particles. In some areas, there may be a very high concentration
of ice crystals that may have adverse effect on the aircraft.  Areas of ice crystals are usually next
to, or above the core of convective clouds that have high-intensity
precipitation. However, areas of ice crystals may sometimes even be
several nautical miles away from the core of the associated convective
cloud.  When ice
crystals get in contact with a hot surface, they melt. Depending on
the type of surface, a water film may appear. On the windshield, this
water film creates not-expected appearance of “rain” at temperatures
too low for liquid water to exist.  If there is a specific airflow towards
a zone of the aircraft where water can build up, accretion may occur
and create a block of ice. This is why flight in areas of ice crystals
may result in various effects, for example engine vibrations, engine
power loss, engine damage, or icing of air data probes.
Detection of Ice Crystals
Ice crystals are difficult to detect
with the weather radar, because their reflectivity is very low due
to both their small size and solid state. In addition, in areas of
ice crystals, the flight crew should not expect significant icing
of the airframe. This is because ice crystals bounce off cold aircraft
surfaces. This is why even the ice detection system does not detect
ice crystals, because ice crystals do not build up on ice detectors
and visual ice indicators.
However, areas of ice crystals
are usually associated with visible moisture. Ice crystals can be
indicated by one or more of the following:
Appearance of
rain on the windshield at temperatures too low for rain to exist.
This “rain” is usually associated with a “Shhhh” noise
Small accumulation
of ice particles on wipers
Smell of ozone
or Saint Elmo’s fire
Aircraft  TAT  indication that remains near 0 °C (due to freezing of the  TAT  probe)
Light to moderate
turbulence in  IMC  at high altitude
No significant radar echo at
high aircraft altitude, combined with:
High-intensity
precipitation that appears below the aircraft, or
Aircraft position
downwind of a very active convective cloud.
Isolated Continental Thunderstorm
Mesoscale Convective Cloud
Operational Recommendations for Ice Crystals
If possible, the flight crew
should avoid flight into areas that have a high concentration of ice
crystals. The following recommendations apply:
Use the weather radar:
Identify areas
that have a strong echo, and perform a detailed analysis of the structure
of the convective clouds
If necessary,
use the weather radar manual modes for a more precise analysis
Pay particular
attention to strong echoes below the aircraft and to downwind areas.
To avoid convective clouds,
comply with operational recommendations ( ), particularly:
Prefer lateral
to vertical avoidance
Comply with
the avoidance margins
Deviate upwind
instead of downwind.
If the aircraft encounters ice
crystals precipitation despite avoidance action, and if this results
in engines or probes misbehaviors, the published procedures and recommendations
apply, and in particular:
ECAM  alerts related to engine failure or engine stall
ECAM  alerts related to probe failure
QRH  procedures such as the ones linked to unreliable airspeed indication,
engine vibrations, engine relight in flight…
Introduction
Below-listed procedures are
performed using the "READ & DO" principle (except MEMORY
items or  OEB  immediate actions):
ECAM  procedures, are triggered automatically in response to an abnormal
behavior of the systems monitored by the Flight Warning System ( FWS )
QRH  procedures, are applied by the flight crew in response to an abnormal
event detected by any flight crewmember
OEB  procedures, are triggered in some situations.
Sequence of Procedure
In most situations, the following
sequence is the basic one that should be applied by the flight crew.
However, this sequence may not cover all operational situations. Therefore,
in all cases, the flight crew should exercise their judgment and adapt
the sequence of actions to the real conditions.
In the case of abnormal or emergency
situations, the flight crew should apply the procedures in the following
sequence, as appropriate:
MEMORY ITEMS
or  OEB  immediate actions
OEB
ECAM
QRH
One Procedure at a Time
When the flight crew applies
a procedure, they must complete the procedure, unless:
An action requests
to apply/consider another procedure,
The flight crew
needs to update their situation assessment due to an unexpected abnormal
or emergency situation (e.g. Smoke detected by the cabin crew or volcanic
ash encounter).
Use of Autopilot
The  AP  has not been certified
in all configurations, and its performance cannot be guaranteed. If
the pilot chooses to use the  AP  in such circumstances,
extra vigilance is required, and the  AP  must be disconnected,
if the aircraft deviates from desired or safe flight path. For additional
information,  .
LAND ASAP Definition
If red LAND  ASAP  is
part of the procedure, land as soon as possible at the nearest airport
at which a safe landing can be made.
Red LAND  ASAP  information is applicable to a time-critical situation.
If amber LAND  ASAP  is part of the procedure, consider landing at the nearest suitable
airport.
The suitability criteria should
be defined in accordance with the Operator's policy.
General
The ADVISORY enables the flight crew
to monitor the drifting parameter. The sensors used to trigger an
advisory may be different from those used by the  FWS  to
trigger an  ECAM  alert.
Tasksharing Rules
The flight crew should use the
following tasksharing method:
The flight crewmember
that first notices an advisory announces “ADVISORY on XYZ system",
Then, the  PF  requests the PM to monitor the drifting parameter. If time
permits, the  PM  may refer to the  QRH , in order
to:
Check the advisory
triggering conditions in various advisory situations
Find the associated
recommended actions.
Tasksharing Rules for Cockpit Controls Operation
To confirm the operation of
the above-listed controls, the flight crew should use the following
tasksharing method:
The  PM  indicates the related control and requests confirmation from the  PF
The  PF  verifies the control designated by the  PM  and gives confirmation
to the  PM
The  PM  operates the related control, as required.
Tasksharing Rules for Thrust Levers Operation
The thrust levers are part of
the controls that the  PF  operates, in order to ensure their
“FLY" task. Therefore, the  PM  should not operate the
thrust levers. If requested by any  ECAM / QRH / OEB  procedure, the  PM  should ask to the  PF  to operate the corresponding lever. The flight crew should use the
following tasksharing method:
The  PF  indicates the related thrust lever and requests confirmation from
the  PM
The  PM  verifies the thrust lever indicated by the  PF  and gives
confirmation to the  PF
The  PF  operates the related thrust lever, as required.
Handling Overhead Panel Control
The cockpit overhead panels
are clearly labeled, in order to help the flight crew to correctly
identify all applicable systems and controls.  When the  ECAM / QRH / OEB  procedure
requires the flight crew to perform an action on the overhead panel
or when the flight crew performs a system reset, the flight crew is
able to rapidly identify and find the correct system panel via the
white label (uppercase) that is on the side or on top of each panel.
To perform any action requested
by a procedure, the  PM  should indicate the related panel
and control and announce in sequence:
The name of
the system
The name of
the control, or system reset
The action.
E.g. “AIR, XBLEED, CLOSE".
The use of this type of approach
enables the  PM  to keep the  PF  informed of the
progress of the procedure and reduces the risk of the  PM  operating the wrong control.  It is important for the flight
crew to remember that, most of the time, in the case of a system failure,
the FAULT light of the applicable control comes on in amber. This
enables the flight crew to correctly identify the applicable system
control on the overhead panel.
After the selection of a control,
the  PM  should check the  SD  page, in order to
verify that the selected action was performed (e.g. The closure of
the crossbleed valve should change the indications that appear on
the  SD  page).
General
In flight, the  PF  and  PM  must crosscheck before any action on the following
controls:
ENG MASTER
IR  MODE selector
All guarded
controls
Cockpit  C/B s.
The flight
crew must crosscheck the above-listed controls, in order to prevent
any inadvertent action by the flight crew with irreversible effects
(e.g. when the flight crew operates red guarded controls). If the
flight crew inadvertently operates a black guarded control, the subsequent
effect is reversible. The flight crew must restrict the reset of systems
to those listed in the  QRH .
General
When an abnormal situation is detected
by the flight crew, the first priority of the flight crew is to maintain
a safe flight path before the flight crew performs any READ &
DO actions. For takeoff or go around, the flight crew should delay
READ & DO actions until the aircraft reaches a minimum of  400
AGL . This is an appropriate compromise between  stabilization
of the aircraft and a delay in the actions. However, the flight crew
may initiate READ & DO actions below  400
AGL , provided that the flight path is safe.
When the flight crew performs
a “READ & DO"  ECAM / QRH / OEB  procedure, they must:
Correctly read
and apply the  ECAM / QRH / OEB  actions
Appropriately
share tasks
Carefully monitor
and crosscheck.
However,
in some time critical situations, the flight crew has no time to refer
to the  ECAM / QRH / OEB  procedure. Therefore,
the flight crew must know, and strictly apply by memory, items referred
to as MEMORY ITEMS or  OEB  immediate actions.
Tasksharing Rules
The  PF  usually remains the  PF  for the entire flight, unless the captain decides to re-allocate
tasks differently, or in the case of failure that impacts the "FLY"
task of the  PF .
In addition to the routine tasks
"FLY" and "NAVIGATE" performed by the  PF , it is the responsibility of the  PF  to perform all the
following actions:
Initiate  ECAM / QRH / OEB  actions that the PM must
perform
Communicate
after  ECAM / QRH / OEB  actions are initiated
and until the  PM  announces:
" ECAM  actions complete", or
“XXX procedure
complete", in the case of  QRH  or  OEB  procedure.
In addition to the routine task
“MONITOR" performed by the PM, it is the responsibility of the  PM  to manage the  ECAM / QRH / OEB  actions after the  PF  announces “ ECAM  ACTIONS"
or launches a  QRH  procedure, as follows:
Read & Do
the  ECAM / QRH / OEB  actions in a spoken
voice
Obtain  PF  confirmation before clearing any  ECAM .
Handling of QRH
General
When the flight crew needs to
apply a  QRH  procedure, the  PM  should use the  QRH /Abnormal and Emergency Procedures table of contents in
order to search and select the applicable procedure.
If the Conditions of the Application of a  QRH  procedure
disappear
The flight crew can stop any
abnormal  QRH  procedure if the conditions for its application
disappear.
ECAM/QRH/OEB Actions Completed
When the  ECAM / QRH / OEB  actions are completed, the flight crew should:
Resume the Normal
Operations Task sharing rules
If time permits,
review the  FCOM  for additional information on the applicable
procedure(s).
However, the flight
crew should not prolong the flight to refer to the  FCOM .
Assess the situation  When convenient, recall
the STATUS page, in order to assess the situation:
Check any fuel
penalty factor, and check the remaining fuel at destination or diversion
airport
Check any landing
distance penalty, and compute the landing distance at destination
or diversion airport
Consider all
the operational, maintenance and commercial aspects.
Make the decision
Inform the  ATC , the cabin crew, the passengers, and airline operations
as required.
General
General
The  ECAM  actions
are actions that the  PM  must perform on ground or in flight
following an  ECAM  alert, once the aircraft trajectory is
stabilized and the  PF  announced “ ECAM  actions".
The  ECAM  actions are divided into several steps, which
are clearly identified on the  EWD  and  SD  pages.
The  PM  must:
“READ &
DO" the  ECAM  procedures, identified as procedure action
lines on the  EWD
Analyse the
operational impact on the affected system via the  SD  page
Read the STATUS
page, including associated procedures.
If an  ECAM  procedure
requests the flight crew to apply a  QRH  procedure, the
flight crew should:
Keep the procedure
displayed on the  ECAM
Apply the requested  QRH  procedure.
The objective is to avoid the
flight crew to be disturbed with subsequent  ECAM  alerts
that may trigger with less priority.
ECAM Tasksharing
ECAM Tasksharing
The flight
crew should apply any  OEB  that affects an  ECAM  alert. To apply the  ECAM  procedure, the flight crew should
use the following tasksharing method:
ECAM Procedure - Tasksharing
First flight
crewmember who notices
MASTER  WARNING / CAUTION
RESET
For each
ECAM procedure:
"Title of failure"  ANNOUNCE
ECAM  CONFIRM
The  PM  should check/inspect
the overhead panel and/or associated  SD , in order to analyze
and confirm the failure, before they take any action. The flight crew
should keep in mind that the sensors on the overhead panel and/or  SD  may be different from the sensors that trigger the failure.
OEB  CONSIDER
"ECAM ACTIONS"  ORDER
When the  ECAM  displays several failures, the  PF  calls out
" ECAM  ACTIONS" for the first  ECAM  only.
Apply the Tasksharing Rules and Communication
for Abnormal Operations
ECAM/OEB ACTIONS  PERFORM
"CLEAR (name of the system)?"  REQUEST
ECAM ACTIONS PERFORMED  CHECK
"CLEAR (name of the system)"  CONFIRM
CLR
PRESS
Before the PM presses the  CLR , the flight crew should carefully check that all actions
have been performed.
For each
System Display (SD) page:
SD page  ANALYZE
"CLEAR (name of the system)?"  REQUEST
"CLEAR (name of the system)"  CONFIRM
CLR
PRESS
When STATUS page appears:
"STATUS"  ANNOUNCE
"STOP ECAM"  ORDER
ECAM ACTIONS  STOP
Consider
the acceleration flow pattern, any normal C/L, system reset, or any
additional procedure, as applicable.
"CONTINUE ECAM"  ORDER
STATUS  READ
The procedures associated with
the STATUS should be previewed to evaluate the associated workload.
They should be performed at the appropriate flight phase.
"REMOVE STATUS?"  REQUEST
"REMOVE STATUS"  CONFIRM
STS
PRESS
"ECAM ACTIONS COMPLETE"  ANNOUNCE
STOP ECAM and Status Page
STOP ECAM
When necessary, the flight crew should
stop the  ECAM  actions when they need to perform actions
which require acknowledgement, check or crosscheck from both flight
crewmembers (e.g. communication to  ATC , request of configuration
change, baro setting). Then, they should continue with  ECAM  actions.
In all cases, the flight crew
must stop the  ECAM  actions before reading the STATUS page,
in order to:
Ensure that
the Acceleration Flow Pattern is performed (i.e. in the case of failure
after takeoff, to ensure that the flaps and the landing gear are retracted).
Perform any
normal  C/L , if applicable.  The flight crew must
perform the pending normal  C/L  at this stage as it is a
good compromise between the necessary application of  ECAM  procedures and system analysis and the delay in the check of systems
status.
Consider any
system reset.  The  ECAM  procedure may request the system reset by switching OFF then ON
the associated system via the usual cockpit control. However, reset
action may not be requested by the  ECAM  procedure. It is
the flight crew responsibility to consider any system reset to recover
the operation of the affected system. The flight crew can only perform
the system reset provided that it is permitted in the system reset
table. If the reset is successful, the STATUS page will disappear.
The flight crew must not apply the system reset procedure from memory.
They must refer to the  QRH .
Consider application
of the  ENG  RELIGHT procedure after an engine failure with
no damage.
The flight crew should
consider performing the  ENG  RELIGHT procedure at this stage.
If the relight is successful the STATUS page will disappear.
STATUS PAGE
The purpose
of the STATUS page is to provide an overview of the technical status
of the aircraft in all flight phases. Therefore, it is important that
the flight crew checks the whole STATUS page information, in order
to correctly assess the situation and subsequently make appropriate
decision.
The STATUS
page may contain some actions, that should be performed by the flight
crew at a more appropriate time. The flight crew should read the procedures
associated with the STATUS page during the STATUS page review to evaluate
and anticipate the workload for each flight phase.
If the ECAM Warning (or Caution) Disappears
If the  ECAM  Warning (or Caution) Disappears
If an  ECAM  warning disappears
while a procedure is being applied, the warning can be considered
no longer applicable. Application of the procedure can be stopped.
Taxi with Deflated or Damaged Tires
In some abnormal situations,
after a rejected takeoff or after landing, the flight crew may need
to vacate the runway and taxi the aircraft with deflated or damaged
tires.  The flight crew must ensure
that the number and position of deflated or damaged tires are in accordance
with the limitations provided in the  FCOM .  .  In order to identify the number and position
of the affected tires, the flight crew can use the  tire
pressure indication  available on the  WHEEl .  If the number or position of the affected tires is not in accordance
with the limitations provided in the  FCOM , the ground crew
must change a sufficient number of wheels before taxi, in order to
ensure compliance with the  FCOM  limitations.  As indicated in the  FCOM  limitations, the nosewheel steering
angle must be limited to a maximum of  30 . In order to
ensure that this limitation is not exceeded, the flight crew should
use the graduations available on the steering handwheel.
The  30  limitation for
the nosewheel steering angle corresponds to either of the following:
A steering handwheel
position on the 3 rd  graduation, or
A steering handwheel
position in the middle of the 2 nd  and 3 rd  graduation with pedals fully
deflected in the same direction.
180 degrees Turn on Runway
For more information on the
minimum runway width that is necessary to perform a  180  turn with the following technique,  .
If the runway is wet or contaminated,
the aircraft may skid, particularly on painted parts of the runway.
The flight crew should consider additional margin when the runway
is wet or contaminated.
IF THE  PF  IS THE CREWMEMBER IN THE LEFT HAND SEAT
( CM1 )
Taxi on the right hand side
of the runway.  Maintain a ground speed between  5  and  8  during the entire maneuver.
On wet or contaminated
runway, it is recommended to maintain a speed of  5  during the entire maneuver.
Turn left, maintaining a  25  divergence from the runway axis.  Monitor the approaching runway edge.
When the  CM1  is physically
over the runway edge:
Turn right,
up to full tiller deflection
If necessary,
use asymmetric thrust (IDLE on ENG 2) and/or differential braking
(more brake pressure on the right side) to maintain a constant speed.
When the  180  turn is complete,
align with runway centerline and release the tiller to neutral position
before stopping.
For A318/A319/A320/A320Neo
For A321
IF THE  PF  IS THE CREWMEMBER IN THE RIGHT HAND SEAT
( CM2 )
the technique is symmetrical
Taxi on the left hand side of
the runway.  Maintain a ground speed between  5  and  8  during the entire maneuver.
On wet or contaminated runway,
it is recommended to maintain a speed of  5  during the entire
maneuver.
Turn right, maintaining a  25  divergence from the runway axis.  Monitor the approaching runway edge.
When the  CM2  is physically
over the runway edge:
Turn left, up
to full tiller deflection
If necessary,
use asymmetric thrust (IDLE on ENG 1) and/or differential braking
(more brake pressure on the left side) to maintain a constant speed.
When the  180  turn is complete,
align with runway centerline and release the tiller to neutral position
before stopping.
Identification of
Final Descent Point
IDENTIFICATION OF FINAL DESCENT POINT
It is
recommended to arm FINAL  APP  mode when the  TO  waypoint is the  FDP .
The Final Descent Point is the
waypoint from which starts the  FMS  segment with coded  FPA . From this Final Descent Point, lateral and vertical profiles
must be checked by crosschecking the following elements on approach
chart,  MCDU  and  ND : (see figure below)
Identification
of  FPA  segment,
Final Descent
Point /  VIP  position,
Constraint altitude,
Map.
There
can be some differences between charts and  FMGC . The schemas
below propose some examples to provide support in identification of
the Final Descent Point. These examples do not aim at being exhaustive
and other approach configuration can be flown.
Identification of the FDP with FDP at FAF
Identification of the FDP when different from the descent point
Identification of the FDP when before the FAF
Preliminary Takeoff Performance Computation
Role of the Preliminary Takeoff Performance Computation
Usually, during the preliminary
cockpit preparation phase, the workload of the flight crew is less
heavy than during future flight phases. The preliminary takeoff performance
computation enables both flight crewmembers to share a common view
of the plan of action for the takeoff. It also enables them to make
the same assumptions for performance computations.  Both flight
crewmembers enter the necessary data on the  EFB  takeoff
performance application. They must take into account any applicable  MEL / CDL  items and  NOTAM s, and independently
compute the preliminary takeoff performance data.  Then,
both flight crewmembers crosscheck the results: they compare the  EFB  of the Captain with the  EFB  of the First Officer
for the parameters listed below. This crosscheck ensures the validity
of the computations.
Content of a Performance Data Crosscheck
When  SOP s request
a crosscheck of performance data, the flight crew must verify all
of the following values:
Runway identification  This ensures that
the runway used for the computation in the  EFB  and/or inserted
in the  FMS  is the same
Takeoff shift  This ensures that
the flight crew took into account the right intersection
V speeds ( V1 ,  VR ,  V2 )
Green Dot speed  This indirectly ensures
that the  GW  values are consistent.
Takeoff thrust
( TOGA , FLEX, DERATED)
FLAPS
THS
PACKS
ANTI-ICE
EO
ACCEL
ALT .
Wake Turbulence
General:
Every aircraft that flies generates
wake vortices, also known as wake turbulence. Wake turbulence rolls-up
into a pair of coherent, counter-rotating vortices that can persist
for some minutes behind the aircraft’s flight path. This wake turbulence
usually moves downward and laterally with the wind. The intensity
of the trailing vortex and the dissipation time depends upon factors
such as the weight, size, speed of the aircraft, and the prevailing
atmospheric conditions (calm weather creates the most critical situation).  Wake turbulence may cause possible danger to the safe flight of another
aircraft that crosses or operates below the trajectory of the aircraft
that generates these vortices. An aircraft can encounter wake turbulence
during any flight phase.
Wake Turbulence Prevention:
To reduce the encounter of a
wake turbulence, the flight crew must comply with the aircraft separation
minima.  If the flight crew suspects
that the aircraft may encounter wake turbulence, an upwind lateral
offset can be used to avoid the wake turbulence. However, the application
of a lateral offset does not guarantee that the vortex will be avoided
(except if the vortices are clearly visible by condensation trails).  During final approach, the flight crew should remain on the standard
approach slope because a deviation does not guarantee avoidance of
wake turbulence.
Wake Turbulence Recovery:
If the aircraft encounters wake
turbulence, pilot input can amplify the effect of the vortices. All
of the following is therefore recommended:
Do not use the
rudder: Use of the rudder does not reduce the severity of the encounter,
nor does it enhance the ease of recovery.
Keep the  AP  ON: The  AP  is able to correctly manage roll and
pitch movements that are generated by wake turbulence. However, if
the aircraft encounters severe wake turbulence, the  AP  may
disconnect.
If the  AP  was set to OFF by the flight crew or automatically disconnected,
release the controls and wait for a reasonable stabilization of the
aircraft.
When the aircraft is stabilized
perform both of the following:
Roll wings level
Establish again
the trajectory.
Landing Performance
General
Dispatch Policy
Airbus recommends to crosscheck
at dispatch, in addition to the regulatory performance requirements,
that in the forecast conditions, the  FLD  for the planned
mass is less than the available runway length ( LDA ). This
check should be made for both the destination and the destination
alternates.
Landing Performance at Time of Arrival
As part of their approach preparation,
the flight crew should always make an in-flight performance calculation,
each time conditions have changed from the assumptions made at dispatch:
Runway change
If the runway, planned
to be used at time of dispatch, is not known, consider that it was
based on the longest runway and no wind. If the runway to be used
is shorter, a specific computation is recommended
Diversion
The intended
use of  autobrake  or  autoland  (as the  RLD  only considers
manual braking)
The intended
use of  REV IDLE
Degradation  of the runway conditions since
dispatch
In-flight failure  affecting the landing performance.
In the case of degradation of
the runway conditions since dispatch, the flight crew should use all
available information that is reported to them, to make an appropriate
assessment of the Runway Surface Conditions. This includes an assessment
of how these conditions may degrade before it is no longer possible
to stop the aircraft within the declared distances. If the flight
crew is not sure, they should request to change the runway for a more
favorable one, or decide that a diversion may be a better option.
In order to assess
the landing performance, the flight crew should follow the two main
steps described below:
Identify the
Braking Performance Level with the  RCAM  for selection of
the runway condition on the  EFB  landing performance application
Calculate the
Landing Performance with the  EFB . Consider a margin of  15  (Factored In-Flight Landing Distance), except in an emergency situation.
Use of Reverse Thrust
Operational Landing Distances should
be calculated in accordance with the planned operation. For example,
if the flight crew expects to use idle reverse thrust only, they should
establish the  FLD  without reverse thrust.  When the runway is wet or contaminated, Airbus recommends the use
of maximum reverse thrust.  The flight crew may use idle reverse
in wet conditions, when it is ensured that a safe stop with spoilers
and wheel braking alone can be made on a runway contaminated with
standing water. The  LDA  should therefore exceed the unfactored  LD  without reverse for the braking action corresponding to
standing water ( RWYCC  2, Braking Action Medium to Poor).
Use of Autobrake
To avoid landing with unduly
high autobrake settings, the  FLD  with autobrake may exceed
the  LDA  as long as all of the following conditions are
satisfied:
The  RWYCC  is 5 or 6
The  LD  with autobrake is less than the  LDA
The  FLD  with maximum manual braking is less than the  LDA .
Use of the Runway Condition Assessment Matrix (RCAM)
Runway Condition Reporting
When information in accordance
with the  GRF  SNOWTAM format is available, the flight crew
may use it for the performance assessment.  When information is provided in the non- GRF  SNOWTAM format,
or any other local format, the flight crew should use the  RCAM  to determine the appropriate input parameters for the performance
computation. The non- GRF  SNOWTAM format can be detected
by its use of field codes as, for example, F), G).
RCAM Location
.
Information Provided by the RCAM
The purpose of the  RCAM  is to provide the flight crew with an identification method of an
appropriate Braking Performance Level, if it is not provided by the
airport.
The  RCAM  provides
6 Braking Performance Levels:
6 - Dry
5 - Good
4 - Good to
Medium
3 - Medium
2 - Medium to
Poor
1 - Poor
Use of the RCAM
The flight crew gathers all
available information (e.g.  ATIS ,  METAR , SNOWTAM,  TAF ,  AIREP ,  NOTAM , Airport Documentation)
related to Runway Surface Conditions.  The flight crew makes a  primary  assessment based on Runway Condition information (i.e. runway state,
contaminant type, depth, temperature). This results in a  primary  Braking Performance Level.
Then, the flight crew  downgrades  this primary Braking Performance
Level, if:
A Special  AIREP  is available and this  AIREP  corresponds to
a lower Braking Performance Level
A SNOWTAM includes
a lower  RWYCC , or the  ESF  corresponds to a lower
Braking Performance Level  For loose contaminants
(Dry Snow, Wet Snow or Slush), the flight crew should not consider
an  ESF  based on friction measurements
Complementary
information is available and is related to a possible degradation
of the Runway Condition or braking action.
In any case, the flight crew
must not use an  AIREP ,  ESF  or any other complementary
information to upgrade a primary Braking Performance Level that was
based on Runway Condition information. The flight crew may accept
an upgraded  RWYCC  reported by the airport.
In the following example,
the reported Runway Condition is wet, and the  AIREP  is
"Good to Medium":
The primary
assessment based on Runway Condition information results in "5
- Good"
The downgrade
based on Reported Braking Action results in "4 - Good to Medium".
The following example illustrates
the downgrade based on complementary information related to a possible
degradation of the Runway Condition or braking action:
Runway state
reported as WET
NOTAM  “SLIPPERY WHEN WET".
In this example, the flight
crew should perform the landing performance assessment with the Braking
Performance Level “3 - Medium”.
In normal operations, the flight
crew should perform the landing performance assessment with the Braking
Performance Level “3 - Medium” if:
There is rain
on the runway
A  NOTAM  "SLIPPERY WHEN WET" or the equivalent information (e.g.
airport documentation) warns that the runway braking action is less
than when the runway is “WET”.
Based on current knowledge,
hail on the runway cannot be categorized in terms of its effect on
braking performance. Operations on hail covered surfaces are not recommended
due to the risk of engine ingestion and airframe damage.
Crosswind
If the flight crew downgrades
the braking performance assessment after they consider additional
information, they should also downgrade the maximum crosswind value.  For Maximum Crosswinds,  .  The flight crew takes into account the
crosswind limitations according to the operator policy, if not automatically
managed by the  EFB .  In the case of strong or gusty crosswind above  20 ,  VAPP  should be at least  VLS
+5 ; the  5  increment above  VLS  may be increased
up to  15  at the flight crew's discretion.
Risk of Degraded Runway Conditions
If meteorological conditions
may change, or under active precipitation, the flight crew should
consider a backup assessment of the in-flight landing performance.
This assessment should take into account the worst probable Braking
Performance Level.  The flight crew may become aware
of these conditions late in approach (e.g. following an  AIREP  transmission that contains "Medium to Poor", or following
the visual assessment of the runway).
In addition to the usual assessment with the Braking Performance
Level "5 - Good", it is safe practice to perform a second
assessment with "2 - Medium to Poor". If the result of the
second assessment shows that the runway is too short, it enables the
flight crew to anticipate, in the event of degraded runway conditions
(e.g. heavy rain), an appropriate decision to continue or not the
approach.
Specially Prepared Winter Runway
An airport may be authorized
by its national authorities to report a Specially Prepared Winter
Runway combined with a  RWYCC  of up to 4. This approval
depends on a statistical demonstration based on aircraft data recorded
and analyzed for observed braking action. When this type of report
is applicable, the flight crew may consider a  RWYCC  of
4, if permitted by the operator policy.
Reported Friction
Estimated surface friction should
not be reported as it is not possible to establish a correlation between
the values provided by the ground equipment and the aircraft performance.
However, some countries continue to report measured friction. The
flight crew should disregard this information, when available.
Downgraded or Upgraded RWYCC
An airport may report a  RWYCC  that is less than the one associated with the reported
contamination condition according to the  RCAM . The runway
inspector must consider all the information available to make the
most appropriate report of runway conditions. The information may
include, for example, friction measurements, vehicle control during
inspection or local knowledge. The airport can downgrade any  RWYCC  to any lower  RWYCC . It should not report any  RWYCC  0, as in that case, the runway must be closed.
In some situations, the airport
may report a better  RWYCC  than the primary one obtained
from the  RCAM . Upgrades are permitted only when:
The runway condition
results in an  RWYCC  of 1 or 0 according to the  RCAM
All observations
indicate that the braking action is approximately "5-Good",
including friction measurements.
The maximum upgraded  RWYCC  is 3.  The flight crew should never
upgrade an  RWYCC  on their own initiative.
Different RWYCC on Different Thirds
The airport may report a different  RWYCC  for different subsections of the runway that correspond
to a third of the runway length. The flight crew should use the worst  RWYCC  for the landing performance assessment, unless a specific
operator policy applies.  The flight crew should use the
lowest  RWYCC  to determine the maximum acceptable crosswind,
as even short sections of very slippery conditions can induce a loss
of control.
Layered Contamination
The  RCAM  includes
some cases of layered contamination.  The performance section of the SNOWTAM can contain only these cases,
for which the effect on aircraft braking performance is known in terms
of  RWYCC .  The free text section of the
SNOWTAM may report different cases. Most combinations not listed in
the  RCAM  result in conditions that are too slippery for
safe operations.  Depths reported for layered
contaminants apply to the top layer only. The flight crew may ignore
loose snow of less than  3  (1/8 in) on top of compacted
snow.  Any depth of water, snow or
slush on top of ice will cause a very slippery condition.
AIREP of Braking Action
Local regulation may require that the
flight crew makes  AIREP s of observed braking action if
they consider it to be less than previously reported. The  RCAM  provides the terminology to be used for these reports (from Good,
Good to Medium to Poor or Less Than Poor). It also provides the associated
description of the observation in terms of deceleration capability
and directional control.  Flight
crew may find braking action difficult to evaluate, as it is supposed
to quantify only the wheel braking component of the deceleration.
Aerodynamic braking and reverse thrust can, at high speed, permit
to achieve the expected deceleration and hide a low wheel braking
efficiency.  The  BACF , if installed, may assist the flight crew to make reports
( ).
ATC  may communicate  AIREP s from previous aircraft.
Flight crew should take into account the type of aircraft (weight,
approach speed, wheel track) that made the report when they evaluate
the impact on their own landing performance calculations.
Examples of Landing Performance Code - Level Assessment
Runway contaminated by compacted Snow, OAT  -10
Compacted Snow at or below  -15  is in the category of "4 - Good to Medium".  Compacted Snow above  -15  is in the category of "3 - Medium".  This information indicates that the computation
should be done with the Landing Performance level "3 - Medium"
and the corresponding maximum crosswind must be taken into account.
Runway covered by less than  3  (1/8
in) of water but heavy rain with storm cells in the vicinity are reported
According to the matrix, the expected
landing performance on a runway covered by less than  3  (1/8 in) of water (runway is wet) is "5 - Good".
However, heavy rain can saturate the
draining capabilities of the runway and result in standing water.
Standing water (more than  3  – 1/8 in of water) is
in the category of "2 - Medium to Poor".  This information indicates that it may
be appropriate to consider "2 - Medium to Poor" Landing
Performance and the corresponding maximum crosswind must be taken
into account.  The flight crew should not apply the benefit of runway grooving or  PFC
in conditions of heavy rain or storm cells in the vicinity.
Runway covered by treated ice (cold and dry) with an estimated
surface friction Good or Runway Condition Code 3
According to the matrix, the expected
landing performance on icy runways are in the category of "1
- Poor" or "0 - Less than Poor".  The  RCAM  does not permit unconditional benefit of runway
treatment as, for example, sand, gravel or chemicals. The success
of the surface treatment must be validated by friction measurements
and supported by all other observations of trained airport personnel.
The airport will report an  RWYCC  3.  The upgrade of the landing performance
may only be performed by the airport. If on treated cold and dry ice,
a surface friction Good or better is measured on all three thirds
of the runway, the airport may upgrade the  RWYCC  to the
category of "3 - Medium".
Use of APU Bleed
If the  APU  is used, the flight
crew can set the  APU  Bleed to ON just before engine shutdown,
to minimize odors in the air conditioning. However, depending on the
environmental conditions (wind, parking position,...), some odors
may still be perceived in the cabin.  Therefore, according to Airline policy,
to further reduce potential odors in the cabin, the  APU  Bleed may be set to ON after engine shutdown. In this case, operators
should keep in mind that the number of pack starting cycles is increased,
and the  APU  Bleed is not immediately available in the case
of an engine tailpipe fire.
Use of APU Bleed
Airbus SOP recommendation is to set the  APU  Bleed to ON when  APU  is available. However,
depending on the operational conditions and  APU  types,
some odors may be perceived in the cabin, once the  APU  Bleed
is set to ON. This is due to the possible presence of oil traces in
the  APU  airduct.  Therefore,
to further reduce potential odors in the Cabin, the  APU  Bleed may be selected 3 minutes after  APU  start. This  APU  warm-up time enables the seals to reach their optimum performance
and eliminates oil traces in the  APU  airduct.
Undue Activation of Go-Around Phase
In some specific cases, the  FMS  Go-Around phase may be unduly activated. This situation may be encountered
after takeoff if the aircraft is above the  ACC
ALT  and the flight crew sets the  thrust s to  TOGA  detent with at least  CONF  1.
In such situation, the flight
crew should do either of the following in order to activate the CLIMB
phase:
Insert a NEW  DEST  (different from the current  DEST ), or
Select the  ALTN  destination.
Once the  FMS  CLIMB
phase is activated again, the flight crew should modify the  DEST  in order to insert the  DEST  of the intended flight.
AIRBUS COPYRIGHT
This Manual has been reviewed under European Export control Regulations
(EU) 2021/821 and was determined as EU_Not in Export Control List.  As this Manual does not contain any US data, US Export control Regulations
(15 CFR Part 774) are not applicable.  This Manual does not contain any Military Data, pursuant all Regulations
as stated above.  This Export Control Assessment
does not include additional restrictions pursuant to EU, UK, or US
Regulations regarding the Destination or the Final User.  This Manual must not be re-exported without the clearance of Airbus
SAS, to any third party (legal or natural persons). When re-exported,
it has to be covered by appropriate authorization and export control
licenses when applicable.  The content of this document
is the property of Airbus. It is supplied in confidence. Commercial
security on its contents must be maintained. It must not be used for
any purpose other than that for which it is supplied, nor may information
contained in it be disclosed to unauthorized persons. It must not
be reproduced in whole or in part without permission in writing from
the owners of the copyright. © AIRBUS 2020. All rights reserved.
Fuel Overread
Fuel check will be performed
by:
Checking that
the remaining fuel added to the burnt fuel corresponds to the fuel
on board at the gate
Maintaining
the fuel log and comparing the fuel on board to the expected flight
plan fuel.
Fuel checks
should be performed when overflying a waypoint or at least every  30 . Any difference should alert the crew and investigation
should be performed.
The flight crew can suspect
a fuel over read if:
The sum of  FOB  and  FU  is significantly more than  FOB  at engine start, or is increasing
There is an
abnormal difference between the fuel on board and the expected flight
plan fuel
The total fuel
quantity abnormally increases
The destination  EFOB  abnormally increases.
Depending on the  FWC  standard:
The
FUEL  F.USED/FOB DISAGREE
alert may address both
cases of fuel leak and fuel over read
The
FUEL  FQI FAULT
alert may indicate a fuel over
read.
The management of the fuel is
affected if:
The flight crew
detects a fuel over read
The
FUEL  F.USED/FOB DISAGREE
alert, indicating a fuel
over read, is triggered
The
FUEL  FQI FAULT
alert, indicating a fuel over read,
is triggered.
The flight
crew should then apply the [QRH]  FUEL OVERREAD  procedure ( ).
The flight crew should be aware
that, for the remainder of the flight:
The remaining  FOB  shall be computed from data that the flight crew considers
as still valid. It may be the fuel used, the flight plan  FOB , the  FOB  at engine start
The  FMS  predictions are recovered after the flight crew inserts the  FOB  that they computed in the FUEL PRED page
The fuel low
level  ECAM  alerts are still valid. These alerts are triggered
by sensors that are independent from the fuel quantity indications
The unusual
difference shall be recorded in the aircraft logbook and maintenance
action is due before the next flight.
Glide Slope Interception from Above
GLIDE SLOPE INTERCEPTION FROM ABOVE
The following procedure must
only be applied when established on the localizer.  There are a number
of factors which might lead to a glide slope interception from above.
In such a case, the flight crew must react without delay to meet the
stabilization criteria.  In order to get the best rate
of descent when cleared by  ATC  and below the limiting speeds,
the flight crew should lower the landing gear and select flaps as
required (at least  CONF  2 should be selected to ensure
that the aircraft speed will not increase). Speedbrakes may also be
used, noting the considerations detailed in the subsection "Deceleration
and configuration change" earlier in this chapter.
When cleared to intercept the glide slope, the flight crew
should:
Press the  APPR  on  FCU  and confirm
F-G/S
is armed and
F-LOC
(  LOC  ) (  LOC
B/C  ) engaged, monitor the vertical interception
Select the  FCU  altitude above aircraft altitude to avoid unwanted  ALT*  engagement
Select  V/S
1500  initially.  V/S  in excess
of  2000  will result in the speed increasing
towards  VFE .
The use
of
V/S
mode ensures that the  A/THR  is in  SPEED  mode.  The flight crew should carefully monitor the rate of descent to avoid
exceeding  VFE  . When approaching the  F-G/S
path,  F-G/S*  will engage. The flight
crew should monitor the  F-G/S
capture with raw data (pitch
and  F-G/S  deviation). The go-around altitude should be
set on the  FCU  at  F-G/S* .
ADIRS Operations
The flight crew performs the alignment
or realignment of the  IRS  during the preliminary cockpit
preparation. This action enables the  IRS  to operate in
NAV mode and to provide continuously the aircraft position.
The flight crew can perform:
An alignment
or a realignment of the  IRS  with a complete  IRS  alignment procedure
A realignment
of the  IRS  with a fast  IRS  alignment procedure.
The  IRS  alignment
or realignment includes the following two steps:
Alignment:  Gyro and accelerometers
prepare for the  NAV  computation.
Position Initialization:  Navigation starting
point is set.
Alignment Step
Complete IRS Alignment
During a complete alignment,  IRS  use gravity and the earth's rotation to determinate the aircraft
attitude and true heading, and  IRS  estimate a current aircraft
latitude.  The  IR mode s must be OFF for more than  5 . Then,
the flight crew sets the  IR mode s to the NAV mode.
The
ON BAT
comes on during  5 .
Fast IRS Alignment
During a fast alignment,  IRS  reset the ground speed and some internal filters to 0, but  IRS  do not estimate the aircraft position.  The flight crew sets the  IR mode s to OFF then, back to the NAV mode within  5 .
Position Initialization Step
.
Check of ADIRS Mode
During the COCKPIT PREPARATION checklist,
the flight crew checks that  IRS  are in NAV mode on the  MCDU .
Cockpit Controls - Best Practices
The cockpit controls (i.e. pushbuttons,
levers and handles located on the overhead panel, the main instrument
panel and the pedestal) are designed to ensure a safe and efficient
interaction between the pilots and the aircraft systems. As best practices
and in order to properly use the cockpit controls, the pilot should:
Not use the
cockpit controls as supports for the arms or for the hands. The use
of armrests may prevent such positions
As  PM , not have their hand on a control before they need to use it, to
avoid inadvertent activation
Visually identify
the control before selection or action on the control. Then, to close
the loop, the pilot must check the result of the action
Not request
an action on a cockpit control if they suspect that the other crew
member does not share the same plan of action as theirs. The application
of the standard callout reduces possible confusion between cockpit
controls in this situations (e.g. The sequence "POSITIVE CLIMB"
announced by  PM  and "GEAR UP" ordered by  PF  ensures a common plan of action between both pilots)
Ensure that
when a cockpit control is activated, no inadvertent activation of
an other cockpit control occurs. This inadvertent activation may occur,
for example, due to loose clothing, loose jewelry, pen held in the
hand or uncontrolled movement.
In addition,
at all times, the flight crew should be ready to rapidly take the
appropriate actions on the cockpit controls, if required.  For information on how to handle the
cockpit controls during abnormal operations,
FCTM / AOP / Management of Abnormal Operations
/ Handling of cockpit controls  .
Content of a Landing Performance Data Crosscheck
When  SOP s request
a crosscheck of landing performance data, both the  PF  and
the  PM  must verify all the following values:
RWY  Ident  This ensures that
the runway used for the computation in the  EFB  and/or inserted
in the  FMS  is the same
RWY  Length  This ensures that
the flight crew took into account any  NOTAM  that affects
the runway length
Airport Weather
Information (Wind,  QNH , Temperature, Runway condition)
Landing Weight
FLAPS
FLD
VAPP .
Objective of Operational Briefings
Objective of Operational Briefings
Operational briefings are an integral
element of the Threat and Error Management process for each mission.
Briefings should focus on the identification of threats that affect
the intended operations and agreement on mitigation (avoidance, management)
of those identified threats.  The second
purpose of the flight crew briefing should be the identification of
significant differences or deviations to “routine” operations.  At the end of the briefing, the flight
crew should have a shared mental model of the intended operations,
the identified threats, their mitigations and deviations from routine
operations.  The flight
crew briefing should provide the  PM  the expected monitoring
framework.  The briefing should create more capacity
in thinking and acting. It should enable team confidence building
and minimize the startle effect when non-standard situations are encountered.
This increases resilience of the flight crew.  A briefing is complementary to  SOP s but is not a repetition of  SOP  items. A briefing is
not to be confused with setting and checking of the aircraft systems
for the intended flight phase. In order to perform these tasks, the
flight crew must follow the  SOP s.
Briefing Technique
Briefing Technique
General
Briefing requires out-of-the-box thinking,
beyond the pure reflection of routine and standard operations. It
should have a threat-focused view and identify and prioritize likely
threats to the intended operation. It should then detail the actions
to mitigate these threats.  Sources
of the briefing are the facts gained in the flight crew pre-flight
preparation, aircraft operation, but also the overall knowledge and
experience of all involved flight crewmembers.  A briefing
should be conversational, interactive and use open questions that
involve all flight crewmembers to share their experience and expectations.
There should be a variation
in the amount of detail and in the length of a briefing. A longer,
more detailed briefing may be necessary and adapted to the flight
crew experience, such as in the following situations:
A flight crew
not familiar with the airport or the approach
Complex airport
(e.g.  CAT  C)
Procedures or
techniques that are rarely flown or applied.
A shorter briefing restricted
to the minimum items is possible. For example:
Operating at
a well familiar airport
Repetitive operations
by the same crew
No or limited
threats identified.
A long
briefing is not necessarily a good one.  A review of Memory Items or Operating
Techniques should normally only be part of the briefing when they
may be potentially required for threat management (e.g. windshear
reported in  ATIS  – a review of [MEM] Windshear). A briefing
of the techniques for rejected takeoff and/or for engine failure after  V1  is normally not required on a routine basis for each takeoff.
Threats
Threats are all of the following:
Events or errors
that occur beyond the influence of the flight crew
Increased operational
complexity
Situations that
must be managed to maintain the margin of safety.
There
is no limit to the possible number of threats that may occur. Using
a checklist-style tool to identify threats creates an obstruction
to the open-mind setting and out-of-the-box consideration. To help
with threat identification, memory aids may be of help, provided that
they are not used in a checklist style manner. For example (not-exhaustive):
AIRPORT
ATC
AIRCRAFT
ENVIRONMENT
Congestion
Construction
Hotspots
Infrastructure
Runway condition
Challenging
restrictions
Language
Phraseology
Short term changes
of clearance
Barometric setting
for approaches based on barometric guidance
MEL / CDL
Aircraft defects
Supplementary
procedures that are not routine
Low visibility
Approach/runway
lighting
Runway contamination
WEATHER
OPERATIONS
CREW
TERRAIN
Windshear
Convective weather
Cold weather
Precipitation
Unreliable weather
reports
Schedule pressure
Delays
Late crew
Load issues
Fatigue
Low experience
Complacency
Distraction
Training
Crew that is
not standard
High terrain
Unfamiliar environment
Complex visual
approach
Types of Operational Briefing
Types of Operational Briefing
General
The following operational briefings
should be performed for each flight:
DEPARTURE BRIEFING  during cockpit preparation
ARRIVAL BRIEFING  during descent preparation.
A  DEBRIEFING  should be considered at the end
of each flight. This is in order to check how the plan and the management
of expected and unexpected threats and errors worked, and to see if
it is possible to enhance next time in a similar scenario. In case
of time constraints this debriefing should be performed no later than
at the end of flight duty. Debriefing is a powerful tool for long-term
safety management.
Other operational briefings:
CRUISE BRIEFING  when the aircraft reaches
cruise level and the flight crew expects specific operational threats
(e.g. high terrain enroute, weather awareness and avoidance) or before
the aircraft enters areas with special operational rules (e.g. North
Atlantic)
RELIEF CREW BRIEFING  when flight crewmembers
change seat in augmented crew operation
RE-BRIEFING  in the case of any new identified
threats or changes to the planned flight strategy (e.g. when the Departure
Change checklist is applied. Also in case of major delay since the
briefing was performed or in case of a major deviation from the original
flight plan).
Preparation for Briefing
Preparation for every briefing
starts with the preparation for the flight mission. Preparation continues
throughout the dispatch flight preparation with the collection of
data on all of the following:
Technical condition
of the aircraft
Route planning
Weather
NOTAM
Load planning
Company operational
requirements
Fuel planning.
Flight
preparation is done partly independently by  PF  and  PM , partly shared by both pilots.
At the aircraft, the following
parts of the  SOP  contain items to be discussed and agreed
by both pilots:
Aircraft acceptance
Preliminary
performance calculation
Last part of
cockpit preparation after  FMS  preparation by the  PF .
These  SOP  items are intended to prepare a shared mental image by
both pilots. They ensure that the following operational briefings
are concise, effective and focus only on essential items. For more
details, refer to  SOP s.
Departure Briefing
The structure and minimum items of the
departure briefing are:
Step
PF
PM
1
Cockpit door closed
- Set an environment with no distraction
2a
Plan
T.O
RWY  (Intersection)
SID  designator
First cleared
altitude
MSA / MORA  for climb trajectory
Extra fuel and
time
2b
Plan
Hotspots for
taxi out
Stop margin
for  RTO
EOSID
Return/diversion
considerations
Special operation
Non-standard
operation
3a
Identified THREATS
3b
Identified THREATS
4
MITIGATIONS
5
MISCELLANEOUS
For the briefing to be of good
quality it is important to minimize interruptions. The cockpit door
should be closed. It should be the task of the Commander ( CM1 ) to anticipate potential disturbance and to manage this step.  If interrupted, the
briefing should resume at the beginning of the step where the interruption
occurred.
The  PM  should start
to brief the main items of the PLAN. This ensures that both pilots
share the same mental image of the flight trajectory after the  FMS  preparation (by  PF ) and check (by  PM ) according to  SOP . Then, the  PF  briefs the
hotspots of potential taxi-routes if any, and considers at least the
following items:
Consideration
for  RTO  (stop margin if available)
The  EOSID /Engine-out trajectory
The considerations
for a return landing or diversion if so required (weather/weight).
The  PF  recalls any Special Operations or Supplementary procedures
to be applied.  Briefing the PLAN
should normally only be a high-level description. It should normally
not be a repetition of the detailed setting and checking of the flight
trajectory in the  FMS  performed in the respective  SOP  items.
The  PM  should brief
the THREATS identified throughout the preparation for the mission.
The  PF  highlights additional threats if required.
The  PF  and  PM  discuss and agree on the MITIGATION of the identified threats.
MISCELLANEOUS is intended to
consider additional items e.g.:
Intended use
of automation after takeoff
Supplementary
Procedures if not yet briefed
Observer safety
briefing and duties
Dangerous goods
on board.
Arrival Briefing
The structure and minimum items of the
arrival briefing are:
Step
PF
PM
1
Set an environment
with no distraction
2a
Plan
STAR /Transition Designator
MORA / MOCA / MSA  for planned trajectory
Runway and type
of approach
Approach minimum
Go-around trajectory
Extra fuel and
time
2b
Plan
Guidance for
approach
Landing flaps
setting
Stop margin
Use of reverse
thrust
Use of autobrake
Planned runway
exit
Hotspots for
taxi-in
Special operation
Non-standard
operation
3a
Identified THREATS
3b
Identified THREATS
4
MITIGATIONS
5
MISCELLANEOUS
For the briefing to be of good
quality it is important to minimize interruptions. Allocating the
right time before top of descent mitigates potential disturbances.
It should be the task of the Commander ( CM1 ) to anticipate
potential disturbance and to manage this step.  If interrupted, the
briefing should resume at the beginning of the step where the interruption
occurred.
The  PM  should start
to brief the main items of the PLAN. This ensures that both pilots
share the same mental image of the flight trajectory after the  FMS  preparation (by  PF ) and check (by  PM ) according to  SOP . The  PF  briefs what the  PF  considers for landing.  Briefing the PLAN
should normally only be a high-level description. It should not be
a repetition of the detailed setting and checking of the flight trajectory
in the  FMS  performed in the respective  SOP  items.
The  PM  should brief
the THREATS they have identified. The  PF  highlights additional
threats if required.
The  PF  and  PM  discuss and agree on the MITIGATION of the identified threats.
MISCELLANEOUS is intended to
consider additional items e.g.:
Special Operations
Supplementary
Procedures if not yet briefed.
Cockpit Preparation
Checklist trigger: Departure
briefing completed.
GEAR PINS & COVERS
REMOVED
The  PF  confirms that
the gear pins and all covers were checked removed during the walkaround.  The  PF  announces
“REMOVED”.
FUEL QUANTITY
____ KG/LB
The  PF  checks the  FOB  and fuel distribution on the  FUEL , and
compares with  the computerized flight plan.  The  PF  announces
e.g. “Fifteen thousand three hundred thirty kilograms balanced”.
SEAT BELTS
ON
The  PF  checks the
memo.  The  PF  announces
"ON".
ADIRS
NAV
The  PF  checks on
the  MCDU  that the  ADIRS  are on  NAV .  The  PF  announces
" NAV ".
BARO REF
_____ (BOTH)
The  PF  and  PM  check and read the  QNH
BARO  setting (or
QFE
BARO  setting  ).  The  PF  then  PM  announce e.g. “ QNH  One Zero One Three”.
Before Start
Checklist trigger:
Pushback clearance
or start clearance received, and
Before Start
flow pattern completed.
PARKING
BRAKE
____
The  PF  checks the  PARK BRK  memo.  The  PF  announces
e.g. “SET”.
T.O SPEEDS
& THRUST
_____
(BOTH)
The  PF  reads aloud  V1 ,  VR ,  V2  and thrust setting on the  FMS  PERF page while  PM  checks  V1  and  V2  on the  PFD  .  The  PF  announces
e.g. “V1 One Two Five, VR One Two Five, V2 One Two Nine, Flex Fifty
Two”.  The  PM  reads aloud  V1 ,  VR ,  V2  and thrust setting on the  FMS  PERF page while  PF  checks  V1  and  V2  on the  PFD .  The  PM  announces
e.g. “V1 One Two Five, VR One Two Five, V2 One Two Nine, Flex Fifty
Two”.
WINDOWS
CLOSED (BOTH)
The  PF  and  PM  confirm that the sliding windows are closed.  The  PF  then  PM  announce “CLOSED”.
BEACON
ON
The  PF  checks the  BEACON  on the overhead panel.  The  PF  announces
"ON".
After Start
Checklist trigger:
In the case
of all engine taxi at departure: On hand signal from the ground personnel
In the case
of one engine taxi at departure: Second Engine Start flow pattern
completed.
ANTI ICE
____
The  PF  checks the  WING ANTI ICE  and  ENG 1(2) ANTI ICE  on the ANTI ICE
overhead panel.  The  PF  announces
“OFF” or “Engines ON” or “Engines ON Wings ON”.
ECAM STATUS
CHECKED
The  PF  checks on  ECAM  that the STATUS REMINDER is not displayed.
PITCH TRIM
____%
The  PF  checks the
pitch trim wheel is at the takeoff  CG  value in the loadsheet.  The  PF  announces
e.g. "thirty two point four percent".
RUDDER TRIM
NEUTRAL
The  PF  checks the
rudder trim is within the tolerance ± 0.3 .  The  PF  announces
e.g. "NEUTRAL".
Taxi
Checklist trigger:  T.O CONFIG  pressed and cabin report received.
FLIGHT CONTROLS
CHECKED (BOTH)
The  PF  confirms that
the flight controls check was performed.  The  PF  then  PM  announce “CHECKED”.
FLAPS SETTING
CONF ____ (BOTH)
The  PF  and  PM  check and compare the flaps setting on the  E/WD  and  FMS  PERF page.  The  PF  then  PM  announce the configuration displayed on  E/WD  e.g.
“CONF 1+F”.
RADAR & PRED W/S
ON & AUTO
The  PF  checks on
the  ND  that the weather radar is ON.  The  PF  checks on
the pedestal that the predictive windshear is AUTO.  The  PF  announces
“ON AND AUTO”.
ENG MODE SEL
_____
The  PF  checks the
position of the  ENG MODE .  The  PF  announces
"IGNITION" or " NORM ".
ECAM MEMO
T.O NO BLUE
AUTO BRK MAX
SEAT BELTS ON
CABIN READY
SPLRS ARM
FLAPS T.O
T.O CONFIG NORMAL
The  PF  checks that
no blue items are on the  ECAM  memo.  The  PF  announces
"TAKEOFF NO BLUE".
CABIN
READY
The  PF  confirms that
the cabin report is received.  The  PF  announces
“READY”.
Taxi
Checklist trigger:  T.O CONFIG  pressed and cabin report received.
FLIGHT CONTROLS
CHECKED (BOTH)
The  PF  confirms that
the flight controls check was performed.  The  PF  then  PM  announce “CHECKED”.
FLAPS SETTING
CONF ____ (BOTH)
The  PF  and  PM  check and compare the flaps setting on the  E/WD  and  FMS  PERF page.  The  PF  then  PM  announce the configuration displayed on  E/WD  e.g.
“CONF 1+F”.
RADAR & PRED W/S
ON & AUTO
The  PF  checks on
the  ND  that the weather radar is ON.  The  PF  checks on
the pedestal that the predictive windshear is AUTO.  The  PF  announces
“ON AND AUTO”.
ECAM MEMO
T.O NO BLUE
AUTO BRK MAX
SIGNS ON
CABIN READY
SPLRS ARM
FLAPS T.O
T.O CONFIG NORMAL
The  PF  checks that
no blue items are on the  ECAM  memo.  The  PF  announces
"TAKEOFF NO BLUE".
CABIN
READY
The  PF  confirms that
the cabin report is received.  The  PF  announces
“READY”.
Taxi
Checklist trigger:  T.O CONFIG  pressed and cabin report received.
FLIGHT CONTROLS
CHECKED (BOTH)
The  PF  confirms that
the flight controls check was performed.  The  PF  then  PM  announce “CHECKED”.
FLAPS SETTING
CONF ____ (BOTH)
The  PF  and  PM  check and compare the flaps setting on the  E/WD  and  FMS  PERF page.  The  PF  then  PM  announce the configuration displayed on  E/WD  e.g.
“CONF 1+F”.
RADAR & PRED W/S
ON & AUTO
The  PF  checks on
the  ND  that the weather radar is ON.  The  PF  checks on
the pedestal that the predictive windshear is AUTO.  The  PF  announces
“ON AND AUTO”.
ECAM MEMO
T.O NO BLUE
AUTO BRK MAX
SEAT BELTS ON
CABIN READY
SPLRS ARM
FLAPS T.O
T.O CONFIG NORMAL
The  PF  checks that
no blue items are on the  ECAM  memo.  The  PF  announces
"TAKEOFF NO BLUE".
CABIN
READY
The  PF  confirms that
the cabin report is received.  The  PF  announces
“READY”.
Line-Up
Checklist trigger:
Line-up clearance
received
Line-Up flow
pattern completed.
T.O RWY
____ (BOTH)
The  PF  and  PM  confirm that the line-up is performed on the intended runway and
intersection.  The  PF  then  PM  announce the runway and intersection (e.g. Runway one four
Left Bravo four).
TCAS
_____
The  PF  checks the  TCAS  mode selector.  The  PF  announces
"TA ONLY" or "TA/RA".
PACKS 1 & 2
_____
The  PF  checks the  PACK 1 ,  PACK 2  and  APU BLEED  on the AIR overhead panel.  The  PF  announces
“ON” or “ON supplied by APU” or “OFF”.
<< Departure Change >>
Checklist trigger: Revised departure
briefing completed.
RWY & SID
____
The  PF  checks the
runway, the shift and the  SID  on the  FMS .  The  PF  announces
e.g. “Runway One Four Right”, “Shift Five hundred meters” and “SID
NEEDLE ONE”.
FLAPS SETTING
CONF ____
(BOTH)
The  PF  and  PM  check and compare the flaps setting on the  E/WD  and  FMS  PERF page.  The  PF  then  PM  announce the configuration displayed on  E/WD  e.g.
“CONF 1+F”.
T.O SPEEDS & THRUST
_____ (BOTH)
The  PF  reads aloud  V1 ,  VR ,  V2  and thrust setting on the  FMS  PERF page while  PM  checks  V1  and  V2  on the  PFD .  The  PF  announces
e.g. “V1 One Two Five, VR One Two Five, V2 One Two Nine, Flex Fifty
Two”.  The  PM  reads aloud  V1 ,  VR ,  V2  and thrust setting on the  FMS  PERF page while  PF  checks  V1  and  V2  on the  PFD .  The  PM  announces
e.g. “V1 One Two Five, VR One Two Five, V2 One Two Nine, Flex Fifty
Two”.
FCU ALT
_____
The  PF  checks the
altitude on the glareshield.  The  PF  announces
e.g. “Five thousand feet”.
Approach
Checklist trigger: Below  10000
AAL  and barometric reference set.
BARO REF
_____ (BOTH)
The  PF  and  PM  check and read the  QNH
BARO  setting (or
QFE
BARO  setting  ).  The  PF  then  PM  announce e.g. “QNH One Zero One Three”.
SEAT BELTS
ON
The  PF  checks the
memo.  The  PF  announces
"ON".
MINIMUM
____
The  PF  checks the
baro or radio minimum on the  FMA .  The  PF  announces
e.g. “BARO Four hundred fifty feet” or “RADIO One hundred sixty feet”.
AUTO BRAKE
____
The  PF  checks the
autobrake mode on the autobrake panel.  The  PF  announces
the autobrake mode e.g. "LOW" or "MED".
ENG MODE SEL
____
The  PF  checks the
position of the  ENG MODE .  The  PF  announces
"IGNITION" or "NORM".
Approach
Checklist trigger: Below  10000
AAL  and barometric reference set.
BARO REF
_____ (BOTH)
The  PF  and  PM  check and read the  QNH
BARO  setting (or
QFE
BARO  setting  ).  The  PF  then  PM  announce e.g. “QNH One Zero One Three”.
SEAT BELTS
ON
The  PF  checks the
memo.  The  PF  announces
"ON".
MINIMUM
____
The  PF  checks the
baro or radio minimum on the  FMA .  The  PF  announces
e.g. “BARO Four hundred fifty feet" or “RADIO One hundred sixty
feet”.
AUTO BRAKE
____
The  PF  checks the
autobrake mode on the autobrake panel.  The  PF  announces
the autobrake mode e.g. "LOW" or "MED".
Approach
Checklist trigger: Below  10000
AAL  and barometric reference set.
BARO REF
_____ (BOTH)
The  PF  and  PM  check and read the  QNH
BARO  setting (or
QFE
BARO  setting  ).  The  PF  then  PM  announce e.g. “QNH One Zero One Three”.
SEAT BELTS
ON
The  PF  checks the
memo.  The  PF  announces
"ON".
MINIMUM
____
The  PF  checks the
baro or radio minimum on the  FMA .  The  PF  announces
e.g. “BARO Four hundred fifty feet" or “RADIO One hundred sixty
feet”.
RWY COND
____
The  PF  checks the  ND .  The  PF  announces
the runway condition and Runway Condition Code ( RWYCC )
e.g. "DRY SIX" or "WET FIVE".
AUTO BRAKE
____
The  PF  checks the
autobrake mode on the autobrake panel.  The  PF  announces
the autobrake mode e.g. "LOW" or "MED".
Landing
Checklist trigger:  LDG
CONF  set and cabin report received.
ECAM MEMO
LDG NO BLUE
LDG GEAR DN
SIGNS ON
CABIN READY
SPLRS ARM
FLAPS FULL  or  CONF 3
The  PF  checks that
no blue items are on the  ECAM  memo.  The  PF  announces
"LANDING NO BLUE".
CABIN
READY
The  PF  confirms that
the cabin report is received.  The  PF  announces
"READY".
Landing
Checklist trigger:  LDG
CONF  set and cabin report received.
ECAM MEMO
LDG NO BLUE
LDG GEAR DN
SEAT BELTS ON
CABIN READY
SPLRS ARM
FLAPS FULL  or  CONF 3
The  PF  checks that
no blue items are on the  ECAM  memo.  The  PF  announces
"LANDING NO BLUE".
CABIN
READY
The  PF  confirms that
the cabin report is received.  The  PF  announces
"READY".
After Landing
Checklist trigger: After Landing
Flow pattern completed.
RADAR & PRED W/S
OFF
The  PF  checks on
the pedestal that the weather radar and predictive windshear are OFF.  The  PF  announces
"OFF".
Parking
Checklist trigger: After Parking Flow
pattern completed.
PARKING BRAKE OR CHOCKS
____ SET
The  PF  checks the  PARK BRK  memo or confirms that
the ground personnel set the chocks.  The  PF  announces
“PARKING BRAKE SET" or “CHOCKS SET”.
ENGINES
OFF
The  PF  checks the
master levers and engine parameters on  E/WD .  The  PF  announces
"OFF".
FUEL PUMPS
OFF
The  PF  checks the  FUEL  on the FUEL overhead panel.  The  PF  announces
"OFF".
YELLOW ELEC PUMP
OFF
The  PF  checks that
the  YELLOW ELEC PUMP  is extinguished on the  HYD  overhead panel.  The  PF  announces
"OFF".
Securing the Aircraft
Checklist trigger: After the
last passenger left the aircraft (if securing the aircraft is intended).
OXYGEN
OFF
The  CM2  checks the  CREW SUPPLY  on the OXYGEN overhead panel.  The  CM2  announces
"OFF".
EMER EXIT LT
OFF
The  CM2  checks the  EMER EXIT LT  on the SIGNS overhead panel.  The  CM2  announces
"OFF".
BATTERIES
OFF
The  CM2  checks the  BAT  on the  ELEC  overhead panel.  The  CM2  announces
“OFF”.
One Engine Taxi At Arrival
One engine taxi always remains a flight
crew decision. When not possible, the flight crew can always taxi
with both engines running.
Before performing one engine
taxi operations at arrival, the flight crew should be aware of the
following:
One engine taxi
reduces the aircraft systems redundancy. Therefore, the flight crew
should decide to apply one engine taxi procedures in accordance with
the Operator's guidelines and the operational conditions of the
day, including the aircraft status and  MMEL  dispatch conditions
One engine taxi
may require more thrust than normal. Therefore, the flight crew must
be careful in order to avoid excessive jet blast and the risk of  FOD
One engine taxi
is not permitted in icing conditions with  OAT  at  +3  ( 37 ) or below (due to ice accretion
and the required engine acceleration during the ice shedding procedure)
One engine taxi
is not recommended in the case of crossing an active runway
Some operational
conditions may prevent, or make difficult one engine taxi. The following
are examples of some of these conditions:
Positive slope
(i.e. uphill)
Slippery taxiway
High aircraft
gross weight (slow or short-radius turns in the direction of the operating
engine may not be possible at high gross weight).
General
The  ALTSM  function increases
the situational awareness during departure and arrival.
The absence of an  ALTSM  alert
during departure or arrival should not prevent the flight crew to
closely monitor the setting of the barometric reference, and to perform
a go-around, if necessary.  The  ALTSM  function provides awareness of an erroneous setting of
the barometric reference during departure and arrival, while operating
between  600
RA  and  6000
AAL . This function uses  QNH  or  QFE  settings.
Operating Techniques
ALTSM  alerts during approach  between  6000
AAL  and  600
RA
Between  6000  ft  AAL  and  600
RA , if the barometric altitude
value becomes amber and flashes on the both  PFD s, the flight
crew should correct the altimeter setting and crosscheck, or consider
a go-around.
An "ALTIMETER
SETTING" aural alert triggers  9  after
the information is displayed on the  PFD s. This aural alert
is repeated one time,  8  later, if an erroneous
barometric setting is still detected. This reminds the flight crew
of the need to correct the altimeter setting and crosscheck, or to
consider a go-around.
One Engine Inoperative - Go-Around with Speed Increase
The following technique enables the landing
weight to be increased when limited by go-around performance.  In the case of one engine inoperative,
the flight crew may have to accelerate to a speed more than the standard  SRS  speed during go-around. This is in order to comply with
the required climb gradient. This chapter describes the technique
that the flight crew should follow to reach this increased speed during
the go-around maneuver.  This technique
should be applied only in the case of one engine inoperative and when
the landing weight is limited by go-around performance.  This technique is based on the go-around
with one engine inoperative,  .  Therefore,
the flight crew should follow the go-around with one engine inoperative
technique and apply the following additional recommendations.
Engine-out go-around speed (EO GA speed)
The  EO
GA  speed
should be determined at dispatch or during the descent preparation.
The flight crew must review the go-around strategy during the arrival
briefing. This includes the one engine inoperative scenario. The flight
crew must know the value of the  EO
GA  speed
to be used in case a go-around is initiated.
Management of the go-around speed increase
After the gear up selection and when
above  150
RA , the flight crew must set and
pull the predetermined  EO
GA  speed on the  FCU .  This action
disengages the  SRS  mode and reverts to  OP CLB .
At Engine-out acceleration altitude
After the level off, the flight
crew can revert to managed speed or select appropriate speed to accelerate.  .
CAB PR  EXCESS CAB ALT
If the  CAB PR
EXCESS
CAB ALT  triggers above  160 , the flight crew
should first apply the  EMER  DESCENT memory items, and then
perform the  ECAM  procedure (the first steps of the  ECAM  procedure recall the memory items).  If the  CAB PR
EXCESS
CAB ALT  triggers below  160 , the flight crew
should apply the  ECAM  procedure, and initiate a normal
descent.
One Engine Taxi At Departure
One engine taxi always remains
a flight crew decision. When not possible, the flight crew can always
taxi with both engines running.
Before performing one engine
taxi operations at departure, the flight crew should be aware of the
following:
One engine taxi
reduces the aircraft systems redundancy. Therefore, the flight crew
should decide to apply one engine taxi procedures in accordance with
the Operator's guidelines and the operational conditions of the day,
including the aircraft status and  MMEL  dispatch conditions
One engine taxi
may require more thrust than normal. Therefore, the flight crew must
be careful in order to avoid excessive jet blast and the risk of  FOD
One engine taxi
creates fuel imbalance. Therefore, the flight crew should pay particular
attention to the fuel imbalance limitation for takeoff
One engine taxi
is not permitted in icing conditions with  OAT  at  +3  ( 37 ) or below (due to ice accretion
and the required engine acceleration during the ice shedding procedure)
One engine taxi
is not recommended in the case of crossing an active runway
Some operational
conditions may prevent, or make difficult one engine taxi. The following
are examples of some of these conditions:
Positive slope
(i.e. uphill)
Slippery taxiway
High aircraft
gross weight (slow or short-radius turns in the direction of the operating
engine may not be possible at high gross weight).
General
General
Fuel checks should be performed when
the aircraft overflies a waypoint, or at least every  30 . Any difference should alert the flight crew, and an
investigation should be performed without delay.  .  For any
message or alert related to the fuel leak, fuel quantity or fuel imbalance,
the flight crew should consider a fuel leak as a possible cause.  If the flight crew detects a fuel leak
before the  ECAM  alert is triggered by one of the system
that monitors the fuel quantities and consumption, the flight crew
can activate the [QRH]  FUEL LEAK  procedure.
Fuel Leak Indications and Observations
TABLE OF INDICATIONS AND OBSERVATIONS
Indications and
Observations
Symmetric/Asymmetric
Probable Source
of Fuel Leak
Fuel spray visible
from an engine/pylon
For one engine
side only:
Excessive fuel
flow, or
Significant
decrease in the  N1  indication.
The fuel quantity
of one of the wing tanks decreases abnormally fast
Asymmetric
Engine
Fuel spray visible
from the wing
The fuel quantity
of one of the wings decreases abnormally fast
Asymmetric & Symmetric
Hole in a tank
Sudden overflow
in one of the tanks
Asymmetric & Symmetric
Hole in a pipe
Development
of a fuel imbalance
Burnt fuel smell
in the cabin
Abnormal decrease
of the total fuel quantity
[ FOB  +  FU ]  <  BLOCK
Difference between
the  FOB  and the expected fuel of the flight plan crossing
a waypoint
The destination  EFOB  is decreasing or is displayed amber on the  FMS
F-PLN  page.
Asymmetric & Symmetric
Engine, hole in a
tank, hole in a pipe,  APU
Philosophy of Application
Philosophy of Application
The [QRH]  FUEL LEAK  procedure will help the flight
crew to identify the source of the leak. The main
steps of the [QRH]  FUEL LEAK  procedure are:
If the fuel leak is confirmed coming from the engine/pylon:  The affected engine
is shut down in order to:
Stop the leak
Prevent fire
hazard due to fuel leaking into the hot surfaces of the engine.
The fuel
crossfeed valve may be used as required.
If the fuel leak is not confirmed coming from the engine/pylon
or if the leak is not located:
Isolate each
tank: Maintain the crossfeed valve closed and switch off the center
pumps. Each wing tank feeds the associated engine
If the fuel
quantity decreases faster in one wing tank than in the other wing
tank, the fuel leak is identified as coming from one wing tank. In
this case, the associated engine is shut down in order to confirm
if the leak comes from the wing tank or from the engine
The threshold provided
in the procedure is a value that takes into account the fuel system
accuracy. A leak rate, that is constant or increases below this threshold,
indicates the development of a permanent asymmetric leak over time.
This situation should be considered as an indication of a fuel leak
that comes from a wing or an engine.
If the fuel
quantity symmetrically decreases in both wing tanks and the fuel quantity
in the center tank decreases, the fuel leak comes from the center
tank or the  APU  feed line.
Fuel Leak Troubleshooting
Impacts on the Landing
DO NOT USE REVERSERS  The use of the thrust
reversers generates some airflow around the aircraft. When there is
a fuel leak from a tank, a pylon or an engine, this airflow blows
the leaking fuel toward the engine air inlet and/or toward the brakes,
with the possible effects listed below:
Ingestion of
fuel by the engine may result in the overheat of the engine and/or
initiate a fire
Contact of fuel
on brakes may reduce the performance of the brakes and/or initiate
a fire on hot brakes.
Therefore,
do not use the reversers at landing even if the thrust reversers are
available.
COMPUTATION OF THE LANDING PERFORMANCE
When there is a fuel leak from a tank,
a pylon or an engine, the flight crew must consider the thrust reversers
not available for the calculation of landing performance.
Landing Configuration
On A321neo some effects may lead to a
low pitch during approach:  On A321neo in  CONF  FULL, there is more flaps deflection than on A321ceo. This allows
a lower  VLS  and  VAPP  in order to optimize the
landing performance.
The  VLS  is usually computed using 1.23 VS1g. However, in certain
circumstances, the  VLS  is more than 1.23 VS1g because it
must remain above the  VMCL .
On A321neo,
the impact of the  VMCL  on the  VLS  occurs when
the aircraft Gross Weight ( GW ) is below approximately  57  ( 125700 ). Therefore, in this range of specific
operations, the real  VAPP  may be higher than the  VAPP  based on  VLS  equal to 1.23 VS1g. As a result, in approach,
the aircraft will have a lower pitch attitude compared to an aircraft
with a higher gross weight for which the  VLS  is not limited
by the  VMCL .
As per
aerodynamic design, the higher flaps defection in  CONF  FULL
leads to a lower pitch attitude in approach. This can be combined
with the  VMCL  effect described above. In the case of  CONF  FULL and low Landing Weight ( LW ), the pitch
attitude in approach may be close to  0 .  In addition, any decision by the flight
crew to increase the computed  VAPP , when combined with
the above-mentioned effects, will result in an additional decrease
in the pitch during approach.
The  VLS  is not affected by the  VMCL  in  CONF  3. The pitch attitude is higher in  CONF  3. Therefore,
if landing performance permits,  the  CONF  3 will be advantageous
regarding aircraft pitch attitude during approach and landing.
APU Fire Test/APU Start
The flight crew performs the  APU  fire test by using the  APU FIRE TEST . Even if the  APU  is already running,
the flight crew should press the  APU FIRE TEST . This ensures
that the fire test is performed, if not already done by maintenance.
This action increases the flight crew awareness on the status of the  APU  fire system.
The flight crew should set an appropriate
radio frequency for an emergency call, if necessary (e.g.  APU  fire).
The automatic shutdown of the  APU  on ground may occur if the flight crew performs this test
for more than 3 seconds.
Departure Change
The flight crew should apply the DEPARTURE CHANGE  SOP  and
the associated checklist when there is a change in the data used during
the initial departure preparation.
This may be a change that affects the  FMS  flight plan,
or the takeoff performance. For example, the change may be a modification
of the departure runway, the line-up option, the  SID , the
runway condition, etc.  The flight crew should consider
the use of the DEPARTURE CHANGE  SOP  and the associated
checklist during taxi until when cleared for line-up.  The flight crew will perform the relevant items of the DEPARTURE
CHANGE  SOP , according to the nature of the departure change,
and the operational context.
FINAL TAKEOFF PERF DATA
The  PF  and the  PM  independently compute again the takeoff performance data.  In order to compute and crosscheck the performance data, the  PF  should perform one of the following:
Stop the aircraft,
or
Transfer the
control to the  PM .
FMS REVISION AND CROSSCHECK
In order to ensure that the  FMS  data used for the takeoff is accurate, the technique to
perform an update is the same as for the BEFORE PUSHBACK OR START
phase,  .  However, the tasksharing is different. Both of the following apply:
The  PF  delegates the  FMS  updates to the  PM , in order
to limit disruption during taxi.
The  PF  must crosscheck the data that the  PM  modified in the  FMS .
Engine Fire
When the engine fire protection
system detects a fire, it triggers an
ENG 1(2)
FIRE  alert.  If the
ENG 1(2)
FIRE  alert is confirmed by local warnings, the flight crew
must apply the associated engine fire procedure without delay. The
flight crew should also consider the  LAND ASAP  message, and land as soon as possible
at the nearest airport where a safe landing can be performed.  The flight crew must be aware that engine thrust and parameters can
remain normal in the early stage of an engine fire. This should not
be a factor in the decision of the flight crew to delay the application
of the engine fire procedure.  The flight
crew must complete all steps of the engine fire procedure and discharge
agents as long as the
ENG 1(2)
FIRE  alert is displayed and a local warning
remains. The ENG 1(2)  FIRE  light remains illuminated until the fire is extinguished, regardless
of the position of the  ENG 1(2) FIRE . The ENG 1(2)  FIRE  light also remains illuminated
after the discharge of the agent 2 if fire is not successfully extinguished.  During the application of an engine fire procedure, the
ENG 1(2)
FIRE  alert and associated
local warnings may disappear if the fire is successfully extinguished
after the discharge of the fire extinguisher (1 or 1+2). In this case,
the engine fire procedure can be stopped, and the remaining ECAM procedures
should be performed as usual.  If the flight crew delays the
application of the engine fire procedure or if the fire is not successfully
extinguished when the engine fire procedure is fully applied, the
ENG 1(2)
FIRE  alert and the
associated local warnings may disappear due to damage to the engine
fire detection system.  However, a propagation of the fire may
be indicated by a replacement of the
ENG 1(2)
FIRE  alert by an
ENG 1(2)
FIRE DET FAULT  alert.  In this case, the flight crew should consider that the fire is not
successfully extinguished and that the  LAND ASAP  is still applicable.
During flight, the
use of autopilot in the case of an engine fire alert reduces the crew
workload, and enables a safe handling of the thrust asymmetry that
is induced when thrust is reduced on the affected engine.
STABILIZER JAM
The  ECAM
F/CTL  STABILIZER JAM
is triggered when
the flight control computers detect a loss of electrical control of
the stabilizer with the following effects:
The pitch control
law reverts to alternate law.
The autotrim
function remains available with the elevators commanded by the  SEC .
In some
failure cases, the manual use of the pitch trim wheel remains available
to move the stabilizer. The  ECAM  procedure requests that
the flight crew checks first if the manual pitch trim is available
through the trim wheel.  If the
manual pitch trim is available, the  ECAM  procedure requests
the flight crew to TRIM FOR NEUTRAL  ELEV . The flight crew
must use the pitch trim wheel, in order to  maintain the elevators
to the neutral position in reference to the  F/CTL . This action provides maximum authority to the elevators.
If the elevators are in the UP position
The flight crew must move the pitch trim
wheel in the nose UP direction to set the elevators to neutral:
If the elevators are in the DOWN position
The flight crew must move the pitch trim
wheel in the nose DOWN direction to set the elevators to neutral:
When the pitch trim is set correctly, the elevators are in
the neutral position:
If the manual pitch trim is not available,
the flight crew must extend the landing gear after  CONF  3 and stabilization at  VAPP . This is to ensure that the
aircraft is correctly trimmed for the final approach, when the flight
controls law reverts to direct law. The autotrim function with the
elevators is lost in direct law.